{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang29 I want to share my document in which I've noted down Q&A to my own questions on this forum as well as other posts. This document isn't perfectly curated however, since some answers to various questions got several different answers and I have them all and when I study my document from time to time, I go with the easiest/most logical explanation and some Q&A may be repeated. I've also written down all Q&A in the back of all the various rulebooks for the core game and expansions that I own thus far.\par
I'll add other rulebook FAQ's when/if I get expansions that include them.\par
If something is incorrect or need clarification, let me know and I'll edit this post.\par
Thanks to everyone on this forum for your tremendous help. This is a great community!\par
Link to forum post for discussion, questions or whatever: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://boardgamegeek.com/thread/3391522/compilation-of-rulebook-faqs-and-unofficialofficia }}{\fldrslt{https://boardgamegeek.com/thread/3391522/compilation-of-rulebook-faqs-and-unofficialofficia\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\line\ul\b Unofficial/Official FAQ:\line\line\ulnone\b0 I asked FFP if the new "Start of Activation" rules for equipment swapping meant that you could roll your Move before deciding what equipment you had on. \b No. You must decide before you roll. The risk is intentional.\line\line\b0 Poison Markers was errata'ed to ignore Armor and Shields\line\line Anything that does wounds always ignore defense. There are some ways where it is explicitly stated, but that isn't necessary. The rules state specifically that defense prevents hits on page 17 of the rulebook. Also of note, is for some abilities like Through Shot(Gunslinger ability), which does d6 damage. There is no hit involved so this also ignores defense.\line\line If I recall correctly, the intention is that you can use any number of items that you have the hand icons to equip. If you have three hand icons, you can use three one-handed weapons or a one-handed item and a two-handed item. As far as dual wielding goes, the rules should probably read something like "When firing more than one weapon as a Ranged attack, none of the weapons fired can may score Critical Hits (any 6s rolled count as a normal hit)." Also, note that Free attacks (like the hold out pistol) are not part of the Ranged attack.\line\line Unlike the Horrible Mutation and Lieutenant Outlaws, Colonel Scafford is NOT placed first.\line\line Does an ally use up the party revive token when KO\rquote d? \b No.\line\line\b0 If double 6\rquote s are rolled on a depth track, are allies revived? \b No.\line\line\b0 I know the rules say animal allies can't use side bag tokens but can one use tokens on them? Yes thematically I can't see giving whiskey to the mule and the dog  but bandages sort of makes sense? \b Sure! They count as Heroes in every way except for the very specific ways listed. This means you also get XP for healing them :-D\line\line\b0 Allies have to do things that literally say stuff like "All Heroes must/may do X" or "All Heroes take Y Horror/Hits". BUT Allies don't have to make any tests that immediately follow a "Who has to take this test" Icon on an Encounter Card. But what is the difference? I will give you an example: if the Encounter card says "[All Heroes Icon]: Cunning 5+. If any Heroes fail, all Heroes must pass a Spirit 6+ test or take D6 Horror Hits ignoring Willpower." Then Allies will not make the Cunning Test, but WILL make the Spirit Test (in the event that someone failed). This rule is present nowhere in the RAW. It was handed down to us at DiceFest 2017 by Jason Hill when we were demoing Belly of the Beast with the Daimyo. We were just as surprised as anyone who had read the rules would be.\line Do Allies participate in tests from\line - Encounter Icons? \b No\b0\line - References to "Every/All Hero(es)" in actual text* (even if that reference is in the results OF an Encounter Icon Test)?\b  Yes\line\b0 Each hero takes damage = yes allies\line Each hero heals damage = yes allies\line KO\rquote d heroes revive = no allies\line When a hero is KO\rquote d, revive = no allies\line\b But on encounter cards\b0\line Each hero initial test roll = no allies\line Each hero consequence test roll = yes allies\line Do Allies "catch their breath" after combats? \b Yes, they do.\b0\line\line\par
The Undead Gunslinger Challenge, how does it work? \b Stop everything else. Choose a hero to challenge the Undead Gunslinger, if he survives choose another hero, then another until all heroes have been used, then start a new turn, HBTD and go through all the heroes again. Each hero rolls dice equal to their initiative and the UG equal to the Quickdraw number indicated on the encounter or threat card. For each six rolled for the UG draw one of his cards to affect the hero. For each six rolled by the hero cancel one of the UG hits against you or place on the UG card. When sixes have been added to the UG equal his Banish total n the encounter or threat card the encounter is over (draw a loot etc if it was threat card), otherwise it ends when all heroes are KO or flee at the start of a turn. Think of the Challenge as a special combat that doesn\rquote t use the map, and ignores initiative order. You still have each player act and then start a new turn, and you still gain loot at the end. But instead of moving on the map and enemy activations, you compare your combat rolls to the Gunslinger cards you draw.\b0\line\line Since you can resolve "Start of Turn/Activation etc" in whatever order you choose, I've always resolved other Start of Turn effects like "Heal 2 Wound Start of Turn" and "Take 1 Sanity Damage Start of Turn" or "Regeneration: Heals 3 Wounds Start of Turn" etc BEFORE resolving the Hold Back the Darkness roll. If I fail the HBTD roll and it triggers a Blood Spatter space which reveals an Remain in Play Darkness card that says "Start of Turn XX" e.g "take 1 Sanity Damage", has that moment already passed or should I resolve that as well or will it not be in effect until next Turn?  \b The answer is that the rules don't say. Personally, I WOULD resolve the new effect, to keep it consistent with another similar situation - when a model's Initiative improves in the middle of a turn. Even if the new Initiative has already passed, the model still gets to activate (page 15 of the FAQ for those curious).\b0\line\line\line I assume that Throwing Axe sidebag tokens and other similar Free Attacks can Crit on the roll of 6+, as normal, right? \b They sure do. There's nothing special about them being free attacks or coming from tokens.\line\line\b0 Do you have to visit X location in Camp (Gates of Valhalla) to Upgrade it? Do you have to visit X location to repair it? \b To Upgrade it yes, but repair a location no.\line\line\b0 I know that you can assign and resolve Hits one by one or in groups. So, if you get 5 Hits, you can assign 2 to Adjacent Enemy 2, roll for damage, it's enough to kill it and then assign the remaining 3 to Adjacent Enemy B and roll for damage. But are you allowed to do the following: Assign 2 Hits, roll for damage, it's not enough to kill it but BEFORE applying damage, you assign more Hits (1 at a time, to not waste Hits) and roll for damage and thus kill it? This can be important for certain abilites on enemies that account for Wounds or what have you. Or do you need to apply that damage before assigning any more Hits? \b  No, that sounds weird. You're trying to do a weird thing. What "Resolved" means is not elaborated upon, but I think it's pretty clear that you go through the entire process. You assign 2 hits, you resolve 2 hits, all the way to wounds. THEN you move on to the rest of your hits.\b0\line\line Can a Viking Raider with Plunder Starting Ability Scavenge and Attack in the same Turn? \b Yes. You Move,  Scavenge, and Attack. In that order.\b0\line\line The rules for placing ambushing shootout enemies are detailed on page seven of the Frontier Town Adventure Book. The rules state that they should be placed on a random hero's tile "as far from any heroes as possible." I read this as meaning that they do NOT get placed in a checkerboard pattern. Instead, they end up "hugging the walls" on the far end of the room. Correct? \b That is correct. The checkerboard pattern placement of Enemies is only used for normal Enemy set up.\line\line\b0 The Brutal Bite ability on the Temple Dog sheet reads "Temple Dog To Hit rolls of 6+ do an extra Brutal Bite Hit with Damage equal to 2 x the Target's Hero Level". Does this "extra Brutal Bite Hit" still need to roll To Hit or do I automatically suffer 1 extra Hit (that I can defend against) per 6+ rolled? \b It does NOT need to roll to-hit. It has already hit, that's why it's called a Hit! Defense and Cover are rolled as usual, of course.\line\line\b0 Does the Badlands Expedition and e.g the Cynder version of Temple Dogs targeting still follow the rule of spreading the enemies as evenly as possible? The Badlands Expedition reads "Enemies select target in order of most Dark Stone carried (highest to lowest), instead of simple random selection". The Cynder version of Temple Dogs (Soul Hunters) reads "Soul Hunters prioritize targets based on the model with the lowest current Sanity". \b The Badlands rule specifically replaces the "simple random selection". This references how an enemy picks target when several are available. The target is randomly chosen between "Heroes with the least number of Enemies of that Type targeting them and within reach" (Rev City rulebook p28, slightly paraphrased). And here, the random selection within that group of heroes is replaced by another selection, but heroes already targeted are not in the group to begin with. So yes, the enemies WILL spread out evenly, but always starting with the eligible target with the most Darkstone. "Prioritize" is not a well-defined rules term, so this is unclear. However, there's a clue in the Trederran Strike Team box. The engineer has a mask with the text "Enemies prioritize you last when selecting a target". The meaning of the rules on that mask is clear - enemies spread evenly but always target the engineer last. So if we borrow that definition of "prioritize", then yes, the enemies would spread out evenly, starting with the hero with the lowest sanity. There are enemies where all of them target the same hero. The only one I can think of off the top of my head is the Void Hounds, and they have very explicit rules - "all Void Hounds re-target to a single random Hero". What happens if two (or more) of these 'alternate target selection' effects apply at the same time? I have no idea.\line\line\b0 If an Enemy or other effect causes a Hero to get "-1 Defense" e.g "To Hit rolls of 6+ causes the Hero -1 Defense" (not taken from any card, just for example purposes) does that mean that a Hero that normally needs to roll 4+ to Defend now needs 5+ to Defend? \b That's exactly what it means. Most of the time, the effect also specifies that a natural Defense roll of 6 succeeds regardless.\b0\par
\line The Badlands Adventure card says that enemies get +1 Damage (to all their attacks) for every x3 Dark Stones carried by the target, but should I include darkstone items when calculating that number Also, should I also include Dark Stone Horseshoes (which has 1 darkstone, but they are attached to the stage coach horses owned by my US marshal) usually i only add 1 to his darkstone number at the end of his adventure for corruption, but not when asked to calculate during the adventure, but maybe there is a more official answer. \b  Yes to counting Dark Stone items (anything with the icon, same as when you roll for corruption at the end).  The horseshoes definitely count for events where the stagecoach is present such as travel events that reference Dark Stone. It probably doesn't apply during adventures in the mines and Other Worlds when the stagecoach isn't present - for example, there's an Event or Growing Dread card that causes a Darkstone Flare-up with heroes taking corruption hits for each Darkstone they carry. The horseshoes should be included in the end-of-adventure corruption rolls though since you would have had exposure to it's while traveling to/from the adventure.\line\line\b0 Distrustful: "-1 INI for every hero adjacent at the start of a turn". Is this releted to the Drifter (e.g. 4 adjacent heroes = -4 INI to HIM) or does he spread this out to the OTHER heroes? \b -1 INI for himself. He's a loner and not happy being surrounded.\b0\par
Secret / Immortal: "Any the time the hero would be killed (...)". Does this imply KO'd also or "just" the status DEAD as defined in the core rules (e.g. two identical mutations?\b Secret/Immortal "Any time the hero would killed" applies to killed and not Ko'd. KO'd is a different game effect, but the injury from being KO'd can be potentially removed between adventures.\b0\line\line How to play an ability that says under certain circumstances, "you may re-roll a single (to hit/defense, etc..) roll. So the question is, what counts as a "roll"? Is that a single die? or is it the entire set of dice rolled in the appropriate situation. Example: an ability that allows you to re-roll a single defense roll. Typically for the sake of speed we figure out how many hits have been taken by the character and then roll defense on all those hits at once. 6 hits? Roll 6 dice together and compare to the defense number of the character. In one sense, these 6 dice together could be considered a single defense roll. However, in another sense, each individual die could be considered a single defense roll. Can anyone help me out? \b It's a single die. If you have Swamps of Death, just look at the Lawman's card and upgrade tree: His Laying Down the Law ability on the character card says "Once per attack, you may re-roll one To Hit roll." His Cool Head upgrade ability says "When using Laying Down the Law, you may now re-roll any number of your To Hit rolls."\b0\line\line\line Guardian of Targa, Quake Smash Ability. Regarding this ability, we encountered something weird yesterday, where we had 3 heroes nearby each other. The first player (A) received a 6, resulting on a Combat hit on the other Heroes (B/C). Since the extra Hits are Combat hits, they followed the same rule as the base Hits. So when we rolled the Combat Hit on the 2 other Hero ... 2 6s where rolled, resulting in more Hits (B-> A/C and C->A/B), which again delivered a 6 (B->A/C). I had to re-read the ability a few times to make sure we were not mistaken. Also, it seems like this 6s also affect Ranged Hits since it does not specify combat hits. Am I wrong? \b I believe you did this incorrectly. The additional are combat *hits* not attacks. Since these have already hit, there are no additional To-Hit rolls made. The secondary target just takes the damage and rolls for saves.\b0\line\line For example, if you draw High Threat Card: 6 Scafford Gang with D3 Hideous Mutations and 1 Scafford Lieutenant. And then roll a 3 for mutations. The rulebook states: "draw each Hideous Mutation card individually and assign it to one normal Scafford Gang model that does not already have a Hideous Mutation."\line A) Does each Scafford Gang member get 3 mutations? And if so how do you randomly assign 3 mutations (out of the deck's 8 cards) to 6 different models?\line Or\line B) You draw 3 cards total, and assign 1 each to 3 random Scafford Gang models? (only 3 out of the 6 models will have a mutation? \b Option B. Three random models (without a hideous mutation) will get one random hideous mutation. And as i interpret it all affected models get a different mutation.\b0\line\line I got a tad confused yesterday when I entered the Targa Library. I'm not running a Gates of Valhalla campaign. Do I still keep a record on the Library Knowledge gathered? I.e do I have to care much about Archive Markers (lying in bed, think that's what they're called) and the Library Knowledge? \b To the last question, yes you track Archive Markers regardless since there are encounters that vary based on the current marker count. Also at the end of the mission for every set of 5 Archive Markers turns in to a Library Knowledge to make the world harder when you return.\line\line\b0 The Holy Expedition Adventure has a trait called "Corrupted" and it states "Taint of Evil - Any time a Hero is Wounded by a Corrupted Enemy's Hit, they also take 1 Corruption Hit". Is this per Model or per Enemy Group? For example, lets say I'm attacked by 3 Models with 1 Hit each and they deal 2 wounds each and are undefended, do I take 3 Corruption Hits, 1 Corruption Hit or 6 Corruption Hits? Another example, lets say I'm attacked by 3 Bandits and they each score one 6 (counts as 3 Hits each), dealing 2 Wounds per Hit. Would that be 12 Corruption Hits, 2 Corruption Hits or 6 Corruption Hits? \b It's per enemy Hit. So in your first example, you would take 3 Corruption hits. In the second example you would take 9 Corruption Hits (assuming you fail to defend against all the incoming hits). Note that if you have Armor you need to roll that for each hit separately to see if that hit wounded you or not.\line\line\b0 One of the Tentacle's Elite abilities states "Entangle - Any Hero Wounded by a Tentacle may not move during their next Activation". Do I still roll for Grit? \b Yes. The rules for movement are: "At the start of a Hero\rquote s Activation, the first thing they should do is to roll a single D6 for Movement. The Hero may Move a number of spaces up to the amount rolled on the die." This makes is clear that rolling for Movement and actually Moving are different things (note the wording "may Move").\line\line\b0 Centurion's Blast Shields states "Armor 5+. At the end of a Hero's Attack (if adjacent) for each Wound prevent by this Armor, the Hero both takes 1 Wound, ignoring Defense, and is thrown back 1 space directly away from a Random adjacent Centurion (moving through other models). Since this is trigged at the end of a Hero's Attack, am I allowed to assign different Hits to other non-adjacent enemies if I Wound it enough to destroy it? For example, if I'm adjacent to 1 Centurion and behind it, there's 2 more Enemies and I get 5 Hits. I assign 3 Hits on the Centurion and after Defense and Armor, it's destroyed. Can I assign the other 2 Hits to the models behind him or is he still technically adjacent even if its destroyed, ergo those Hits are wasted? \b When an enemy model is killed, it is removed immediately (page 27 in the Valhalla rulebook) and you're free to assign remaining Hits as you wish. Models removed from the board are not adjacent to models on the board.\line\line\b0 One of the Centurion's Elite abilities states "Dark Stone Explosion - When destroyed, every Hero within 2 Spacesa takes D3 Corruption Hits, as well as 2 Hits that do 2 Damage each". With their Blast Shields in mind that causes one to be pushed for every Wound prevented by its armor, am I pushed before they're destroyed i.e this Elite ability is triggered simultaneously as the Blast Shields ability or is it triggered after? So if I'm pushed 3+ spaces, I'm not affected by this Elite ability? \b The explosion trigger happens immediately when the Centurion is killed so you will be affected if you are nearby at that moment. The knockback from the Blast Shield doesn't happen until the end of your attack, which is much later.\line\line\b0  If I have an ability that lets me cancel and redraw a Threat card and I draw the "Wandering Enemy" threat card which instructs you to draw a World card and then an Enemy from that World. If I draw e.g Cynder and draw an OW Cynder Threat and cancel that, do I cancel both cards or do I only cancel the Cynder Threat and thus I have to "discard an redraw" from the Cynder deck or do I cancel both cards and redraw from the standard Threat deck? \b The rules don't mention whether you can cancel a Threat card that you've started resolving. What they do mention is that you can't do that with Growing Dread cards, as follows. "A Growing Dread card may be canceled /.../ once it has been revealed (before it takes effect)". So if you want to keep it consistent with Growing Dread, you need to decide whether or not to cancel a card before you start following its instructions.\line\line\b0 The "Mouse" Spirit Guide (Indian Trading Post) says that you can reveal 2 extra Exploration Tokens and choose 1 to use. 2 extra = draw 3 Exploration Tokens, use 1 and discard the rest, right? The problem is, what if you reveal 3 Exploration that all have Clues and you'd need 4 Clues for the missiom (5 Clue tokens total in the stack), thus the mission becomes impossible? Are you meant to shuffle the other 2 back into the stack? \b Unclear. Most other times when multiple exploration tokens are drawn, the unused ones are discarded (Indian Scout, 'Collapsed Tunnel' encounter, etc). But there are instances where the unused ones are instead placed on the bottom of the stack (Trederran Engineer). So there's really no way to know. As for what happens when exploration tokens run out, the rulebook doesn't say. The section about discard piles mentions that a discard pile can be shuffled and reformed, but makes it very clear that this only applies to cards./I use this as "Up to" rather than draw 2 extra straight. Thematically, the mouse is looking for your best path, which is usually when it will run into a clue.\line\line\b0 Do Void Venom stack? Let's say that the Stranglers have an Elite ability that gives them the Void Venom ability and you're also fighting Void Spiders. If they stack per Enemy Type, you can get 2 Void Venom so only 6+ will Hit (if a Hero has 4+ To Hit)? \b No, it doesn't stack. The rules text is "A Hero with a Void Venom marker on them is -1 on all of their To Hit rolls during their next Activation". If you have a marker, you have -1 to hit. No mention of -1 per marker.\line\line\b0 The Dark Stone Bracelet item reads "Once per Adv, cancel an Enemy Model's Attack (before dice are rolled)" and the Serpent Skin Gloves Jargono Artifact reads "Use 1 Grit to force an adjacent Enemy to Re-roll any number of their Combat Hits just rolled". Can these items and similar items only be used by the Hero with said item i.e if Hero A has Serpent Skin Gloves he can only use this against an Enemy attacking him or can these be used to help other Heroes as well? \b The item doesn't mention any such restrictions, so no restrictions exist. It can be used on enemies not attacking you.\line\line\b0 Yet another Grit-related question. A few encounters read something like "..Roll a D6 (no Grit). On the roll of 4+, gain 1 Loot. On a 1, 2 or 3, Ambush Attack". Some read something like "..Roll a D6. On a 1, 2 or 3. Attack!". I had, until I encountered Encounters with the (no Grit) clause, never allowed Grit to be used on these kinds of rolls because I see it as something that might happen that's not within my/the Heroe's control. But now it seems that this is allowed. Or is it that cards with that (no Grit) clause might be cards from supplements/other expansions and they added this for clarification and thus it should be applicable on all Encounters, clause or no? \b Unclear. The FAQ mentions that Grit may not be used to re-roll "Dice not rolled by a Hero", such as "Any roll to pick a Random Hero/Item/Etc". What that last 'Etc' includes is not elaborated upon, so it's unclear if it includes encounter outcomes/I'd be inclined to say you can re-roll with a Grit. Nothing in the Rules nor the FAQ expressly forbids it\line\b0\line\line Preacher Sermon. I rolled double 6s to use my Shockwave. Can I use my Firebrand ability to refill one of those sixes so I don't take 6 corruption? \b You can if you want to risk failing the Sermon roll. Only the final total roll counts (for both success and Corruption), after any and all possible re-rolls are used. Shockwave is fairly hard to cast so I would just accept the Corruption and have faith in your 3+ Willpower, rather than re-roll one of the dice and risk a failure.\line\line\b0 When doing a dangerous sermon, the preacher can get corruption by rolling doubles. Is it possible to spend 1 faith to adjust the outcome, and thus avoiding the corruption hit? \b No, as faith only adds to the die roll, it does not change it. A double five is still a double even if you add a drm. You can use grit to re roll one or both dice, or some other die rolling item like a Lucky Hat.\line\line\b0 If a card e.g a Sermon (Preacher specific card) states "...on the Hero's next activation", and since you can use Sermons whenever you want (unless explicitly stated), you can trigger that effect at the start of turn and then when it's X hero's turn, it's triggered/active, right? But if I trigger this during X hero's turn, it won't apply until his next turn? \b Yes, that's correct.\line\line\b0 Can the Preacher spend more than 1 Faith token per Sermon? E.g spending 2 Faith tokens to turn a dice roll of 8 to 10 and thus successfully cast a Sermon? \b Yes.\line\line\b0 Since the adventure sets (Gates of Valhalla, Valley of the Serpent Kings) mentions that poison ignores armor (which, in the past, it didn't), does this also apply to burning? \b No. It would say if it applied to burning, or to all status markers. Funnily, this means it doesn't technically apply to Potent Poison, or to hits with keyword 'poison.'\line\line\b0 Drowed Dead "Cursed Blades" ability reads: "Any Hero that takes 1 or more Wounds from Drowned Dead Combat Hits during a turn also takes 1 Corruption Hit". Is this per Drowned Dead model? If 1 Hero is attacked by 3 Drowned Dead, and each of those models Wounds the hero, would he take 3 Corruption Hits or just 1? \b 1 hit. An enemy group attacks as one (usually), so 'Drowned Dead Combat Hits' means all the combat hits from the group. It would say 'Any Hero that takes 1 or more Wounds from EACH Drowned Dead model's hits...' if it were the other way, and it would be annoying to have to track each model's hits independently. Which does happen sometimes, but not in this case.\line\line\b0 Heroes must move before searching/exploring meaning they must stop at the puzzle tile to explore the next tile (no more movement after). Other heroes may then move on to that new map tile but may not search or explore on that tile (assuming room not passage) until the exploration token is revealed at the end of the turn. Other heroes may still explore different doorways that are on a tile that does not have an unexplored exploration token. For example, if a heroes explores a door and finds a cross passage, the next three heroes may enter the cross passage and each explore a different door.\line\line The rules for Large Enemies displacing other Enemies (page 26) indicate that Small/Medium Enemies are displaced as the Large Enemies move through them. So, if a Large Enemy moved through (technically, brushed aside) four Small/Medium Enemies, all four of those Small/Medium Enemies would be moved away. The rules for Extra Large Enemies (page 28) say they brush aside smaller Enemies "just like Large Size Enemies." But the example image at the bottom shows something different. The Extra Large Enemy moves through three smaller Enemies, but only seems to displaced the one it lands on, not the first two it moves through. And the smaller Enemy it lands on isn't moved back to a space the Extra Large Enemy came from; it is moved to an entirely new space. \b The second example is just meant to highlight the "Overflow" rules, and the XL enemy in the example is a Harbinger which flies over models. If it was the Goliath (which doesn't fly), enemies 1, 2, and 3 would be displaced as the Goliath moves along it's route. Basically when XL enemies move, they 'shrink' down to one square and behave like Large enemies as they move. once they get to there destination, they 'expand' back out to four squares, which can also displace models.\b0\line\line Blasted Wastes' Scavenger attacks Dark Stone Shaman in an Animal form. Does he get +X Combat for her items with anvils? \b The DS Shaman can carry clothing and weapons; she just can't equip them in shifted form. So yea, the Scavengers are going to get their +X Combat against you.\line\line\b0 Blasted Wastes' Heavy or Warlord, Black Fang Brave, etc, makes an Attack against multiple targets. Do they roll against each target separately, or maybe they roll once against all targets? \b Separately. Unless it specifically says to roll once and apply the results broadly. \b0 There is a question then about the Fangs... Does their attack qualify for rolling separately? That makes Fangs MUCH less deadly. Black Fang Tribe (Enemy sheet): "Wild Attack -- When Attacking, makes a full Combat Attack against each adjacent Hero". First we played it as rolling separately. Later I thought that it was wrong, not only because they run out of Dark Stones too fast, but mostly because of one of their Traits. Black Fang Tribe Trait "Decayed Minds": "Each time a Black Fang Tribe model consumes a Dark Stone, place a Sanity Damage on him. If a model ever has 3 or more markers, he doubles the normal effect for the Dark Stone just consumed, and then falls dead at the end of the attack." If a Fang has enough Combat and enough Heroes around, he may fall dead even in the first turn if rolls separately for each of his targets. If not - he may live for at least 3 turns (attacks). \b Yeah he might. Keep in mind tho that it only happens on 6s. Since they have 3 combat base (on the non-brutal side), you're only consuming 1 DS every 2 Combat rolls. If your Heroes are all grouped up then the Black Fang are gonna run out of a DS pretty fast, but they're also going to absolutely murder you. PSA: Remember that when you resolve an Enemy Type's Attacks, you do it per Hero - not per Enemy Model. This means that in the case of the Black Fang, you will sometimes be rolling 2+ Attacks from the same Black Fang model as part of resolving different Heroes' getting attacked, depending on how many Heroes that model is attacking. For instance if Hero #1 is adjacent to two Black Fang and Hero #2 is adjacent to only one of them, then one of the Black Fang models is going to be adding its To-Hit rolls to the "batch" against Hero #1, and then again to Hero #2 after the attacks against Hero #1 are resolved. Put another way: it's intuitive to think about the mechanics of Enemy Attacks being "each Enemy rolls their Attack against the relevant Heroes" but its actually "Each Hero gets attacked by all relevant Enemies". \b0 Never heard about this! So it's similar to how Shootout is implemented. Looks like this does not make a huge difference for the result, if I get it right... Even with Black Fang - their Brave won't attack the next Hero if he is already dead by consuming Dark Stones. Mostly if makes a difference regarding who will be attacked and who is not, but this is decided by players, so no huge difference again. But that's very good to know and to take into account!\b  Shootout IS a great example of the same mechanic better explained (because it's actually how ALL Attacks work, even non-shootout ones you just dont really think about it when none of the Enemies are ranged), BUT this is where the wording of "attack" fails a little bit. The Black Fang model will always get ALL of his attack rolls in on all surrounding Heroes before succumbing to a decayed mind because all the Black Fang Attack rolls that are made, across ALL the different Heroes affected count in totality as that Enemy Group (Type)'s one single "Attack event" for the round - just like any other Enemy; the only difference is that each Black Fang model can roll To-Hit against multiple Heroes in the same Attack. Decayed Minds wont kill them until after the Enemy Group's entire Attack is over. Deep Dive: technically, all the Heroes are attacked simultaneously by each relevant Enemy Model in a Group - but the limitations of physical reality often necessitate handling one group of To-Hit rolls at a time. The reason you group those To-Hit rolls by Hero and not by "Enemy Model rolling the Hits" is because of how defense words: you always get to roll your Hero's Defense rolls against ALL incoming Hits that you would take simultaneously, together - so you can grit the whole lot if you need to. If your Rancher is in the blast radius of 3 Black Fangs, then roll 9 Dice against her (3 for each), she rolls her Defense against the Hits (including any added by Dark Stone), she takes Wounds for the unDefended Hits, and you move on to your Lawman. He is standing next to 2 of the 3 same Black Fang Models that generated To-Hit rolls on the Rancher, so he gets 6 To-Hit Dice rolled against him (3 for each). We don't think about which Black Fang has already "gone" or whatever cause none of them will be done Activating until ALL of them are done Activating. Therefore, when calculating "number dice rolled against a single Hero by a Black Fang Attack" the only thing we care about is how many Black Fang that Hero is currently adjacent to. \b0 I see... This makes defending the Hits much easier. Million times easier, to be correct.  However, let me express some doubts that it works this way. Okey, standard "ignore all damage from one source" then ignores the whole attack of an Enemy group on a Hero (if it has Assault + Melee - this ignores one of those). "Ignore 1 Hit" then becomes an extremely weak ability, compared to this... But there are some things that are tired not to Enemy groups, but to models. For example, my Gambler has now the Mutation "Tail with a Mouth", which deals 1 Wound to an adjacent Model that rolled '1' To Hit. And he has the Wasteland Scrap Armor (Blasted Wastes Barter Town) which does the same with an upgrade, but additionally brings XP for this. So, when an Enemy model rolls, for instance, 2 '1s' while standing nearby, it gets 4 Wounds and the Gambler gains XP for 2 of them, if it is Large, (and cancels it's successful hits thanks to 'Tell'). Sounds like a pretty nice combo mechanics, I guess Now, if all Enemy models make "one combined attack", I don't have a clue how to apply the Wounds from Mutation and Armor. Gambler chooses whom to apply the Wounds among all attacking adjacent Enemy models - up to his choice? Does not sound reasonable... Randomly choose 'who was that guy'? Same. Apply max. Wounds to all adjacent participating Enemy models just because one of them rolled some '1s'? Devastation. Back to Black Fangs: So, if Fangs roll a lot of dice combined and get at least one '6' - they trigger their ability ONCE and then get a 'death mark' Sanity marker EACH? At the end of defending their attacks, those who have 3+ counters (they may get more, of course, and WILL get more in most cases if making cumulative attacks) will simply die... So, if a "Sanity-clear" Fang attacks 3 Heroes and there are other Fangs participating (because Heroes haven't made a 'body barricade'), most likely that Fang is dead after all attacks are elaborated. Heroes are watching a cartoon - Fangs attack, Fangs fall dead...Okey, maybe. But it's even more strange than the way we played it before - when each model was attacking separately. Jee, maybe I misunderstand something. But if I got it right - this ruling does not look good for me... at all  It decreases difficulty a LOT and leads to the next game mechanic questions. \b This is not quite right. I see the confusion. There are 2 different concepts here and they're being conflated.\line 1) Models DO all make their own Attacks, you just get to combine them for the purposes of Defense. But they are all different Attacks - even if they go at the same time for that Enemy Group.\line 2) A single Black Fang model makes ONE attack, but that single attack involves rolling its full combat on each adjacent Hero. Since a single Black Fang model won't be "done attacking" until it has resolved its To-Hit rolls against ALL Heroes adjacent to it, it will not get any Sanity Markers for Decayed Minds until the Enemy Group's Attack is (functionally) over. You can of course keep track of which Model has completed its attack rolls for all adjacent Heroes mid-Attack-resolution, placing any the Sanity Marker(s) on them at the point, but that's waste of effort because its all a timing abstraction anyway; all those Attacks are happening at once, and as such the deaths triggered by Decayed Minds will also all happen at once so you might as well wait until the whole Group is done. But to your point: A "single source" in an attack is "one single model". So no you cannot ignore the entire group's dice with abilities that do that. You can only ignore one Model's worth. This is where multicolored dice come in handy. If you have 3 Black Fang Models, then you roll 3 colors of 3 dice each and pick the color with the best To-Hit rolls to use your ignore ability on. Or, you can roll the same color 3 times and just keep track - understanding that you're allowed to defend ALL the Hits from all 3 rolls in one clump (since they technically do happen at the same time). For Decayed Minds, yes, you need to keep track of which models rolled the 6 (see above method), and only THAT model will get the Sanity Marker. I'm not sure what your Gambler example is alluding to. And I'm also not how you got 4 Wounds from two 1-wound triggers. Can you explain a bit more? \b0 Summarizing - we roll all attacks of one kind (one Enemy + one type of its attacks) against each Hero at once, keeping track of each Enemy model individual rolls, and then the Hero defends ALL these attacks at once... using Grit to Re-roll ALL failed Defense rolls simultaneously (in other words - paying no difference to the concrete attacking models - just 1 Grit for all attacks at once). However, the cumulative defensive principle works for the defense rolls only (or mostly only, as there may be various abilities) - e.g., a 'source' is 1 model, not a hydra of crazed Fangs, and so on.....If I got it right now - then I was playing wrong for many years.  And maybe playing right will allow our Posse to use Grit for better benefit, as a lot of Grit is consumed for defending each attack separately. However... this may make the game even more easy... maybe.About some naughty Gambler:\line 1. 'Tail with a Mouth' Mutation: "Any time you or another model adjacent to you rolls a 1 on a 'To Hit' roll, that model takes 1 Wound, ignoring Defense. No XP is gained."\line 2. Armor Spikes upgrade for the Wasteland Scrap Armor: "Any time an adjacent Enemy rolls a 1 To Hit, it takes 1 Wound, ignoring Defense."\line Looks like one 1 = 2 Wounds, two 1 = 4 Wounds, etc. \line\b Yeah you got it right. It's worth mentioning that sometimes you DO have to keep track of what Defense rolls go with which Attack Rolls - but you can do this with the same colored dice you did the attack with. The reason is because maybe you want to see your Defense rolls before choosing which Model's attack to ignore? Or maybe the Enemy has a specific ability on 6s, so you need to remember which defense rolls go with those. It gets even worse when the Enemies have Armor. \b0 I've got a bad suspicion, suddenly... Does this happen for Hero defensive rolls only, but not vice versa? For instance, Samurai gets 3 Hits on her attack and deals Wounds with 2 of these Hits to one Enemy model and with the last Hit to another Enemy model. He gets Fury for each wounding Combat Hit. Will he get 3 Fury, 2 Fury, or 1 Fury? We play as 3 Fury. \b You get 3, as long as each of them did Wounds after Enemy Defense and Armor. But IF the Enemy has Armor, you need to actually track which Armor Roll is trying to block which wound from each of YOUR Hits, because you only get Fury for Wounding Hits. For instance, if you get 3 Hits and assign them all to one enemy (with Armor 5+) and end up doing 2 Wounds to them a piece (after Defense, but before Armor). Then you have a total of 6 wounds. But you cant just roll 6 dice for the Armor cause you wont know which of those dice went with which Hit and you need to know that to see which of those 3 Hits you get Fury from. So instead you roll 2 red, 2 white, and 2 purple for Armor (1 color per wounding Hit you did) - and then see if any of the colors are completely "armored" away. If the white Dice read 5 and 6, that entire Hit would be blocked by Armor and you would get no Fury for it. This only matters when such abilities are present (like Fury or the examples in the first paragraph). The majority of the time, you do not need to keep track of which Enemy Model is rolling which dice. If it makes you feel better, this situation was twice as annoying before the XP change in the latest FAQ made it so "number of wounding Hits" didnt matter anymore for XP.\b0  Jee, thank you very much! Everything is clear now. It's a miracle that we were playing wrong all these years =) - the good news are, now we get a good chance to "renew" the game and play it... ehh... like never before  Yes, we always played it this way with the Armor, but I never thought that we can roll Armor for all Wounds at once (when it does not matter for Fury or similar) - this comes to be handy for saving playing time! Thanks a LOT for clarifying all this!! \b To be clear: the Armor rolls happen at all once, per assigned Hit Batch. So if you assign 1 Hit at a time, rolling for damage before you assign the next Hit, then you will be rolling each Hit's Armor separately. But if you assign 2 Hits' worth of damage at once (or 3 or more), then you roll the total Armor of that "batch" all together. Usually this doesn't much matter, cause Enemies don't have Grit and as such don't tend to get to reroll batches of their own dice. But sometimes it does (Col. Scafford), so it's good to be aware of technical timing.\b0\line If they roll once against all - does the Gambler's Skill 'Tell' allow to cancel Hits against each Hero, or only against Gambler himself? \b Yeah this saves only the Gambler from AoE wrath. The wording "on you" at the very end of the statement covers pretty much every angle - even in the cases where the Enemy is specifically called out as rolling once and applying the results to all Heroes. Even in these cases, each Hero is assigned their own version of the incoming Hits that they must deal with separately, even if the number of Hits is the same across every Hero affected.\line\line\b0 A Hero wins $500+ in a gambling location in town having no Unwanted Attention markers. What is the order for gathering and triggering attention marker(s) at the end of the location's visit? Simply put - is this first marker triggered? \b The order is: 1) get marker ---> 2) roll against marker.\b0\line\line Marshals Whirling Strike - "... perform full combat against each adjacent enemy". Means, to perform 2 combat separately for each adjacent foe, or just 2 combat, as normal. \b 2 combat against each adjacent enemy, each combat being determined separately. It means to calculate all your combat buffs (base + weapons and tree/item buffs) and roll that amount once against every adjacent enemies. RAW, it's roll all the combat dice once per adjacent enemy. Usually when Brimstone wants you to roll once and apply the roll to many things, it says so explicitly. And it's almost always limited to Enemies Attacks. Whirling Strike has no such indication. IMO it couldn't be clearer: "roll your full Combat against each adjacent Enemy" means exactly that. You roll against each Enemy. Note that you probably could still grit the whole thing if you use multicolored dice or some other delineation since the whole thing counts as one Attack.\b0\line\b\line\b0 In regards to Snap Fire enemies. After they've made their Free Ranged Attack, they charge to do a Melee Attack. Does this work like normal enemy activation i.e they'll all move at the same time, then attack? By reading the rules, it sounds like it but the reason I ask is that this could lead them to be boxed in by other Snap Fire enemies and thus can't utilize their free Retreat? \b I'd play it this way. The rules are pretty clear that an enemy turn is divided into "Movement" and "Attack". Snap Fire should add an extra step (Free ranged Attack) but not screw with the turn structure completely IMHO.\line\line\b0 The Relentless enemy ability reads "Adjacent Heroes may not use Grit", I suppose you can't even use Grit to cancel a Growing Dread then? \b Correct. NO Grit.\line\line\b0 Are Serpentmen Tribe cards discarded after the fight? There's an optional rule in which, don't remember exactly how it goes, by scavenging you can draw and reveal a Tribe card and it also says that Tribe cards usually remains in play unless a new Tribe card is drawn. So, with the optional rule in mind you should only discard a Tribe card if a new is drawn. So, if I scavenge again, I replace the current Tribe card in play but if you're attacked by Serpentmen, you should not draw a Tribe card because then, what's the point of using that optional rule? \b Tribe cards are not discarded after a fight. They stay in play until replaced by a new tribe card. \line\line\b0 The Lucky Charm Personal Item reads "Once per Adventure, prevent all Damage just done to you from a single source". We know that a source includes an Enemy OR Enemy Group that just attacked you. Thus, if you're attacked by 3 Enemies, you prevent damage from all 3 Enemies. My question is, since it says "just done to you", are those Damage/Wounds actually placed before I trigger this card which can result in me being KO'd before I get to use the item? The Amulet of Kotak reads "Once per Adventure, prevent all Damage a Hero is about to take from a single source" implies that you use it before Damage is actually placed so you can prevent being KO'd. \b I also believe they are intended to have the same effect; the latter one just cleaned up the wording. If the wounds were applied to the character first, I feel the wording would have said "heal all damage just done to you from a single source" rather than "prevent."\b0\line\line The Lava Men Burning Fists ability reads "Lava Men To Hit rolls of 6 also immediately add a Burning Marker to the Hero" and on the brutal side it reads "Lava Men To Hit rolls of 6 also immediately add D3 Burning Markers to the Hero". My question is, is this per 6 or per model? If 2 models attack you on their Brutal side and they roll two 6's each so a total of four 6's, do you add D3x4 Burning Markers or only D3x2? For other enemies it usually says "for each To Hit of 6" or something similar. \b Each 6. So in your example, your hero will take anywhere from 4 to 12 burning markers, immediately. Then you can defend against the hit.\b0\line\line Are Upgrades attached to Items only in effect if those Items are equipped? \b An item upgrade adds an ability to the item. If that item requires being equipped to be used, the upgrade should inherit the same restriction / I think officially it's probably "yes", but it becomes too much to track. My house rule is that if it's a stat change, it remains as long as the item is on you. If it's an ability, that part only applies when equipped.\line\line\b0 Follow up question - what's to stop a Hero from just moving the attached Upgrade/s over to the Item they want to equip, assuming there are upgrade slots available on that Item? \b Nothing will prevent you from moving an upgrade to a different item, but if the upgrade has a cost($200, 2 darkstone, 2 grit etc) you have to repay it. As stated on the town location cards, town upgrades can't be removed. As a side note, upgrades that give you a bonus to damage are best placed on non weapon items so that you can use the bonus regardless of the item you are attacking with.\b0\line\line\line When fighting the Serpentmen Warriors, if they roll 6's they do double dmg. You should roll different colored dice for your Defense against these Hits, right? \b Correct.\line\line\b0 The Base XP is gained ONCE if a Hero does any Wounds to an Enemy Model. So, if I attack/assign a different Hit to another Enemy Model in the same Group, would I get the Base XP again? \b Correct.\b0\par
Can another Hero heal the Dark Stone Shaman while she's in an Animal Form? \b Absolutely.\line\line\b0 Can the Dark Stone Shaman and another Hero trade with each other? \b Yes. Trading is not Using. The rulebook specifically mentions that you can trade away an item you can't use. Don't ask me how the mouse is lugging around a void hammer.\line\line\b0 If the Dark Stone Shaman has cast a spell PRIOR to becoming an Animal Form and said spell requires an upkeep of "2 Spirit Magik or 1 Dark Stone at the start of each turn", can she spend that Spirit Magik/DS or since she can't cast Spirit Magik, she can't keep active spells active either? \b Yup. The restriction only mentions that you can't cast. Paying upkeep is not casting, so it's fine.\line\line\b0 The Dark Stone Shaman gets to rolls Casting dice equal to Spirit Magik spent as well as Dark Stone discarded (2 Casting dice each). She can use DS AFTER her initial Casting roll. If I use Grit for the Spirit Magik dice, can I add X Casting dice after using that Grit and if so, can I Grit those additional Casting dice or do I have to decide if and how many DS to discard before I use Grit? \b Just to be clear, is the following what you want to do? Roll to cast, grit those dice, pay darkstone to roll extra dice, grit those extra dice. Because that's totally possible. The only restriction on rerolls is that each die may only be rerolled once - there are no restrictions regarding one reroll per action or anything similar.\line\line\b0 If you are KO'd and you use a Recover token, does this still trigger effects that says "when KO'd"? For example, Curse of the Werewolf (if KO'd by a Werewolf, on a D6; 1-2, become a Werewolf Hero) or a Darkness cards that says it's attached to X hero "until KO'd" or the removal of Poison tokens? \b  Revive is applied instead of KO, so a Hero is not KO'd if you Revive them.\line\line\b0 If the Heroes are in an Other World and they're standing on the Gate End Cap, will Enemies that moves through other models move to the other Gate End cap i.e the Gate End cap that's behind the heroes? \b The 'Enemy Movement' rules make no exceptions for gates. The enemies move as far as they can, including through gates.\line\line\b0 Items that gives "+X" to a Skill or Stat as well as an ability with the "Once per Adventure" or "Once per Fight" condition, do you still get the +X bonus after using said ability? \b Yes. The card doesn't stop working just because you've used the ability. It's just that that ability can't be activated again. Getting +1 Luck and "Once per adventure roll one extra scavenging dice" wouldn't remove the luck, even after you use the extra scavenging dice.\b0\line\line\line Encroaching Darkness is a Darkness card that remains in play and forces the Heroes to subtract 1 from the Hold Back the Darkness Roll ("the Roll"). Page 10 of the Rulebook seems clear that natural doubles on the Roll cause a depth test. I assume then that Encroaching Darkness has no effect on natural doubles rolled for the Roll. In other words I assume that one does not subtract 1 from a double thereby preventing a Depth test. \b It will not prevent the depth event from occurring. Though it might affect any other effect which checks the actual value rolled, for example if a hero has the madness effect "its coming for you!" where he receives sanity damage if the darkness roll fails; if the posse marker is in the middle section you need to roll 8+ to succeed, so if you roll double 4's the depth event is triggered as normal but the hero will need to roll for the sanity damage as the actual result of the roll is 7 which is a fail. Rolling doubles only prevents the darkness token to move on the depth track, but the actual result will still be a win or failure and may trigger certain side-effects\b0\par
\line\b The operative mechanics here are less about Prevent/Ignore vs. Cancel, and more about what you're preventing/ignoring/canceling. If it's Hits, then you need to do it before they becomes Wounds. If it's Wounds you're preventing/ignoring/canceling, then you can wait until you have the final number. Wolfsbane has that extra wording because it allows you cancel Hits, not Wounds - which is normally only able to be done before Defense is rolled. The Rune of Shadows mentions the term "Hit" as well, but if you read the actual wording you can see that it actually ignores Damage from a Hit, rather than ignoring the Hit itself. This important distinction means you can see it at the last second, but only to ignore one Hit's worth of Damage.\par
Any other effect needs to be used before you pass that Final Unknown (be it Defense, Cover, Armor, or something other prevention mechanic). This means that if you have items that could give you Armor (like a Fine Cigar), you need to use these before you roll Defense (assuming you don't already have Armor or Cover, and that the Hits you're staring down don't do variable Damage).\par
Note that Cancel/Prevent and Ignore DO mean different things. Prevent/Cancel means that the effect is negated entirely. Ignore means that it still happened, just not to you. These distinctions matter in certain situations: if an Enemy heals itself every time it rolls a natural 6 To Hit, then cancelling/preventing the Hit stops the Heal, but ignoring it doesn't. Cancelling/Preventing/Ignoring the damage from the Hit won't stop the Heal at all (unless its predicated on doing damage).\par
Put another way, ignoring/preventing/canceling the damage from a Hit doesn't prevent that Hit's secondary, non-damage-related affects. If you use the Rune of Shadows to ignore the damage from a Hellbat Hit, you're still taking the Horror Hit. If you wanted to get rid of the Horror Hit as well, you must use something that targets the Hit itself, rather than the damage FROM the Hit (and you're going to have to use it before Defense is rolled - unless it's a Werewolf Hellbat, created by some Sinister Experiement, and you have Wolfsbane which clearly lets you wait until after Defense is rolled).\b0\line\par
When enemies have an ability that reads "..Changes targets each turn", does this override the rule of distributing enemies as evenly as possible for each enemy type? For example, if 3 Black Fang (with a trait that says they change targets each turn) enemies are in play and 2 Black Fang are targeting Gambler and 1 is targeting Jargono Native, will they each roll a new target and thus, depending on the roll, the Gambler or Jargono Native can have all 3 Black Fang targeting him? Or will they adhere to the rule and thus the only change is that, depending on the roll (or is it guaranteed that this round Jargono Native will have 2 and Gambler 1?), the Jargono Native might have 2 Black Fang targeting him this round and the Gambler only 1? \b As far as I know, it doesn't. When the models are first placed on the board, you distribute them evenly. Then, at the start of their second activation, the enemies left alive will choose another target within range to attack. Roll/Randomize that target as necessary, starting with models on target A (that have target B and C left to target), then models on target B (that can target A and C) etc. In your example, The blackfang tribes would simply switch targets: 2 on the Jargono native and 1 on the Gambler. Note that if for some reason, they cannot reach a new target, they will stay on their current one (and that movement is technically happening simultaneously, so no blocking one target from enemies because it is surrounded by the same enemies, and then the rest of that same enemy group moves to swarm the target leftover). Treat their targeting as if they just showed up in the battle, so basically they could end up targeting the same character and they do follow the normal distribution rules. Distributed as evenly as possible per enemy group.\line\line\b0 If you have an ability that lets you cancel an enemy Hit, how does this work against e.g Bandits and Harbinger? In the Adventure book it says "Cancel: Prevent the effect of something. If a card is canceled, it's discarded and has no further effect". If a Bandit rolls a 6, it counts as 3 Hits. If I cancel the 6, do I cancel all 3 Hits or just 1? If the Harbinger has the Elite "Claws" ability which reads "Harbinger Combat Hits now cause 2 Hits each", do I cancel both Hits or just 1? \b Those abilities that turn one hit into multiple are resolved as the final number of hits. So if a Bandit hits a 6 on their to-hit roll against you; you can only cancel one of three coming your way. Note, it is a "To Hit roll" the enemy is performing, the ability is triggered should it meet the triggering timer, which in this case is a rolled 6+. So instead of the one hit, you take three. You can only block Hits, not "To Hit" rolls. The most consistent answer is \ldblquote Hits that cause more than 1 Hit become so immediately; unless you can cancel a To-Hit roll (or modify it in some way), then the \rquote final\rquote  number of Hits is all cancel effects care about.\rquote  In other words, you can have an effect like this to cancel 1 of the 3 Bandit Hits generated by that 6.\line\line\b0 In the case of the Town missions, rewards are assumed to include any Loot you would normally be drawing. You don't draw extra Loot at the end of the Fight separate from those drawn during rewards\b\line\line\b0 The Steam Clouds encounter card reads "Ranged Attacks for models on this Map Tile (or Hits assigned to a model on this Map Tile), only Hit on rolls of 6+, and these Ranged Attacks may not be Critical Hits". So, I understand that this applies to both enemies and heroes. However, if I have a melee weapon and assign Hits on an enemy model, it only Hits if I assign a 6. right? It's not considered a Critical Hit however so I still have to reduce the damage roll by the enemy's Defense but does things that gives bonuses to Crits apply e.g "Crits +1 DMG" or something similar? Or is it that the Critical Hit works for melee but not ranged but the "only hit on rolls of 6+" is for both melee and ranged? \b Melee in this game is called "Combat hit". Ranged attacks are "Ranged to-hit". In your example, you are still able to crit (ignore an enemy's defense) with melee weapon, and your normal combat value (3+, 4+, 5+) still applies and doesn't care about steam. However, you are correct that enemies immune to critical hit are only immune to the defense penetrating effect, any other effects you have (+ damage, debuffs) are still coming into play. The card is pretty clear "these Ranged Attacks may not be Critical Hits" melee hits are still working as normal, and can crit.\line\line\b0 When heroes are ambushed by enemies with e.g Shootout, the rules say you should determine a random hero and place enemies on that heroes tile as far away as possible. If you're standing on the tile connection space i.e you're, for all intents and purposes, considered to be on both map tiles, do you decide which tile it gets placed on or do you place it on the tile which is bigger/longer? \b AFAIK, there is no rules there, either randomize which tile the enemy spawns on (or if you ran out of space on one tile, spawn them on the other so they stay at max range).\line\line\b0 Jargono Native has an ability called "Shield Charge" which reads "Use 1 Grit, while you have a Shield equipped, to move through other models this turn. Each model moved through takes 2 Wounds, ignoring Defense (limit once per model)". Do you still have to make an Escape roll? I'd say no, since you're using your shield to charge through enemies (albeit in a, more often than not, unrealistic manner e.g move 1 forward, then back to the original space, then move through 2 other models and back to your starting space). \b Abilities that let you move through other models usually ignore escape rolls. However, these abilities do usually include that part. Personally, I'd say that using one of your most valuable resources (grit) to move through enemies and inflict two wounds (enemies still get armor rolls on that btw) would ignore the need to roll for escape.\line\line\b0 As a follow up on the question above (Jargono Native "Shield Charge"), can you end in the same space with an enemy you moved through if those 2 Wounds killed it? \b I would say no: you move through the enemy, end up on an adjacent square, and it dies after your move.\line\line\b0 The Harbinger Elite ability Claws reads "Harbinger Combat Hits now cause 2 Hits each". If he gets 3 Hits, it's 6 Hits. Do I roll 6 Defense or 3? \b You would roll for 6 defense die for the 6 hits coming your way.\line\line\b0 The question is for things that increase damage on ONE of your hits (or cause other effects) -- do you roll the damage first and then choose whether to apply the ability? Or do you have to designate the ability before you roll the damage? Can you make all your damage rolls (assuming they're all going toward the same target) and then pick which one to apply the effect to? Some example abilities from Forbidden Fortress:\line 1. Basic ability to "add +X damage to one of your hits". This appears on Battle Gloves (personal item), the Geisha's Outwit upgrade, the Jingama gear card (aka the 9-iron), and others.\line 2. The Warlord's Katana (Daimyo starting gear): Once per turn, you may ignore an enemy's defense and armor for a single combat hit.\line 3. The Enforcer's "Find a Weakness" upgrade is a little different because it doesn't mention hits: "Spend a grit to double one of your damage rolls before any other modifiers. This damage also ignores armor."\line So, assume I am the Enforcer fighting a single enemy. I roll my Combat attack and score two hits, let's say one is critical. The way I want to do it is roll both damage dice (one white and one red to distinguish the critical), rerolling one or both with grit if I need to. Then after seeing the results, I will decide whether to activate the Enforcer's ability to double one of the rolls, and/or activate the Battle Gloves or the 9-iron to boost damage for one of the hits. Or you can imagine a similar example with the Daimyo's katana ignoring defense instead of the Enforcer's upgrade ability. \b All 3 effects can be applied after rolling the to hit/damage For the first 2, the mention of hits implies you already determined you have a succesful hit The 3rd effect implies you already rolled for damage. There is no requirement to commit to an effect before knowing whether it is useful to do so. In general, ffp always wants effects/abilities to be meaningful, like for grit where you can temporarily exceed your max grit and are allowed to immediately use the excess for extra movement or another effect instead of losing it\b0 .  I have an official answer from the designer of the game, Jason C. Hill: \b Abilities like Frontier Justice may be used after Damage is rolled, unless specifically noted otherwise.\line\line\b0 If an Enemy changes targets each turn, and is already adjacent to all possible targets and it chooses a new target, will it actually move (like moving behind to make room for enemies) or will it stand still because all possible targets are adjacent i.e only move enemies if not adjacent/other rules e.g ranged and so on? \b It will only move if it has a path to do so or can move through other models, otherwise just swivel it toward its new target.\line\line All Attacks from an Enemy Group are rolled at once (per type of Attack, so if the Enemy Group has Assault then Ranged Attacks are rolled together, then resolved, then Melee Attacks are done after that)*. Then the Hits are defended en masse as well. However (as seen re: Parry) this does NOT mean that you don't need to track which Enemy in the Group is rolling which dice (and even which Enemies' Hits you defended). Parry is a great example of when the game expects you to do this: it's pretty clear from context that you activate the Battle Tactic once - after all Enemies in the Group have rolled their Attacks together - when there are one or more 1 rolls present among the dice. For each roll of 1, you can then cancel a Hit done by the same Enemy that rolled that 1, and if you run out of Hits to cancel for that specific Enemy you can do damage TO that Enemy based on that Enemy's damage.\b0\par
\b But if all the dice are rolled at once (and Defended at once), then how can you tell which Hits go with which Enemy? This is why you have different colors of dice. I cannot stress this enough: the dice don't come in different colors just to be pretty. You are meant to use them to handle rolling mechanics that require a single "fistfull roll" while allowing the results to visually indicate the break-down of the source data. Everyone who is serious about this game (and its rules) should immediately go buy 5-6 sets of different colored D6s.\line\line This being said, you don't necessarily NEED different colors to handle these situations. You CAN still roll them all separately, deal with the Parries Enemy by Enemy, and just keep track in your head of the total left over Hits (and which Enemy did them, in case that matters post-Defense) - and then move on to Defense for said left-overs. The important thing to understand is that whether you implement this with 4-5 colors of dice or with a single color, that all Attacks with the same Enemy Group are considered to happen simultaneously for the purposes of game mechanics. Any instances of damage that Parry applies to Enemies will happen all at once, before Defense, regardless of whether or not the players have to break down the steps into separately rolled sets of d6s because they don't have enough dice. Likewise if the Enemy Group is allowed to re-roll some of their missed dice, then that also happens first - across all Attack dice for all Enemies in the Group - before things like Parry come into play.\par
Put generally, all Enemies in a single Enemy Group Attack as a single "event" and if you need to keep track of which Enemy's dice are which (due to things like Parry, re-rolls, Endurance once Armor comes into play, etc) then you're expected to manage that yourself. Just because the players need to pick up the same physical dice and roll them out multiple times to handle edge cases like this doesn't mean that the game considers them to be separate events.\par
*Exception: Sometimes Enemy Groups have uber-versions (like a Hellfire Witch or a Master Summoner or whatever) that the rules indicate should Activate first in their Enemy Group. In these special cases, such Enemies will get a completely separate Activation** (which means they DO get a separate Attack - complete with Defense resolution, etc) from all their minions. They do still count as part of the same Enemy Group tho (which can be confusing and causes rule issues in certain places, but there you have it)\par
**Corollary TO the Exception: In other cases, the rules will say that the uber-version of a given Enemy will "Move first and Attack first" rather than "Activate first". In this case, that Enemy's Activation will still be WITH their Enemy Group but - as with the other case - their Attacks will still be a separate event.\line\b0\line Once per turn, you may take 1 corruption hit to ignore a target's defense for one of your Combat hits. When exactly is this apply? a) Before rolling the combat dice, so you for example roll one red die? b) After you roll your attack, once you see the results (so you dont waste the ability on a crit or on a fail) but before going for damage? c) After you have roll for damage, so you can even "exploit" things? \b C it is. See for example Dead Eye Shots.\b0\par
\line Doc Surgery says "Limit 1 surgery/exorcism attempt per injury/mutation/madness". Is this per town stay or per visit? \b It's one attempt per visit to the Doc's office.\b0\par
\line If you roll a 6 and have -1 to hit, did you critical? \b Yes.\b0\line If you roll a 5 and get +1 to hit, did you critical? \b Yes.\b0\par
\line Can you use grit on D6 regarding xGOLD or xXP? For example, in a Rail Town, you might be encountered by a reporter. If you pass a skill check, you receive D6x10 XP. Can you grit this roll? I'd say no but just want to make sure. Can you grit a Loot card that says Gold = D6x25? I'd say no. Can you grit Catch your Breath rolls? I'd say maybe. \b Neither rules source mentions anything about not being able to grit loot cards, town event, etc. so that's perfectly possible. This is the classic 'what is a chart' question. If you think d6x10 XP is effectively a chart result (where 1=10, 2=20, etc) and this is resolving something that happens to your Hero--not something the Hero is themself rolling--(how much money they get depends on how much money there is, not how good they are at finding money), then gritting these kinds of variable rewards is a no-go. This is my preferred interpretation. But I think it's also valid to say that it's not explicitly a chart and not explicitly discussed in 'what can and can't be gritted' so you're entitled to make a judgement call.\b0\line\line The Gambler has a ability "Tell" that reads "For each To Hit rolls of 1 an Enemy rolls when attacking you, you may cancel one of its other succesful To Hit rolls on you". If it had said "Enemy group", I'd had no confusion but let's say I'm attacked by 3 Void Spiders that rolls 6 dice. If they roll 5-5-5-1-1. Can I cancel two 5's or just one 5? If I'm attacked by 1 singular Enemy, I have no confusion. It's only when I'm attacked by a group of enemies that I'm not entirely sure on how I should resolve this since it says "Enemy" and not "Enemy group". \b You should roll different colored dice for different individual enemy models if there is an ability in play that makes it matter what an individual model rolls. This could be the Gambler's Tell ability, an enemy ability that gives status tokens on a wounding hit, etc. In your example, you should roll three colors of dice. Or roll their attacks individually, but declare that--mechanically--they're all being rolled at the same time for Grit reasons.\line\line\b0 Is the Fast Horse (Ignore effects of Travel Hazard on a 5+) meant to only include the hero that owns said horse? For example, if each hero is being robbed and should lose D6 Dark Stone and D6x50 Gold. One hero rolls a 5 and ignore said effect. Does the other hero has to lose dark stone and gold? \b Only the hero that bought the horse get to ignore the hazard if they roll a 5+. Other heroes don't have a fast horse to get out of trouble.\line\line\b0 If something gives you -1 to e.g a Town Location chart roll and you roll 5+3 =8 and thus reduce your roll to 7, is this considered a 7 for all in game purposes e.g Unwanted Attention? \b That's a good question. I don't remember it mentioning "natural" 7s, so I'd assume rolling an 8 in that case would trigger Unwanted attention\line\line\b0 When something says e.g "Each hero take D6 Hits" are you supposed to roll to see how many hits each hero takes once or do you roll a D6 once for each hero i.e the number of hits will vary between each hero?  \b You roll individually. I could take 1 hit, you could take 6, your friend could take 5, etc.\line\line\b0 Hell Bats have the 'Nightmarish' ability which reads "For every Hit done by a Hell Bat, the Hero also takes 1 Horror Hit." Does 'every Hit done" mean every Hit after having rolled for Defense? Or before? \b Before.\line\line\b0 Assuming the Posse is high enough level to face Brutal Enemies, does the Sheriff's Bounty use the Brutal XP amount to determine cash reward? \b Yes.\b0\line\line Enemy Abilities that pertain to Critical Hits, such as Tough, or Slasher's Chiton Plating, have no effect on Dynamite? \b Correct \line\line\b0 Enemies that have an Armor Ability, such as Colonel Scafford, still use Armor to mitigate Dynamite Wounds? \b Correct \line\line\b0 Enemies that have an Endurance Ability, such as the Black Fang, still use Endurance to mitigate Dynamite Wounds? \b Correct \line\line\b0 Does the Enemy ability Endurance limit Damage from sources that are not Hits (such as Dynamite)? \b Yes. Endurance is intended to limit the number of Damage the model may take from any single instance.\line\line\b0 Dynamite is an Attack that does Wounds (not Hits) to Enemies in or adjacent to the space where the dynamite ultimately lands. It doesn't gain benefits from +damage buffs unless that buff specifically gives +dmg to "Attacks" (rather than Hits or unspecified).\line\line Can you put Dark Stone items/upgrades into chests, or just Dark Stone itself? \b No, it can only hold raw Dark Stone. \line\b0\line If something says "automatic Hit" instead of Wound, would you get a Defense roll? \b Yes. \line\line\b0 I can't seem to find specific rules for what otherworld variants' (e.g. Snow Terrors) XP would be if you're on the Brutal side of the card (when you get to posse level 5), since the threat card has an XP value for the non-brutal version. Are there any rules, or is there a community accepted value (e.g. Brutal is equivalent to 3 elite abilities or +15xp)? \b I increase the XP by the difference between the regular and Brutal sides of the normal enemies. So if a normal enemy is normally 20 XP, and the Brutal side is 30 XP, then I'll increase the Other World enemy XP by 10 for the Brutal version. We also scale up some stats as needed. Sometimes the Other World increased stats match the Brutal stats of an enemy. In that case, for a Brutal Other World monster, we'll further increase the stat by the difference between the regular and Other World versions of normal strength enemy. So if a normal enemy has defense 3, and the Other World version has defense 4, and the Brutal version of the normal enemy is defense 4, then we'll give the Brutal Other World monster a defense of 5.\line\line\b0 What about things like "Mark of the Hunter", that can be attached to any item and grants +1 DMG to Beast Enemies? Does this count for dynamite? \b No, because it doesn't use the word "Attacks" which is required for +dmg abilities to affect non-Hit based sources of Attack damage (like Dynamite).\b0\line\line When instructed to lose Dark Stone e.g by the Darkness card "Flood of Bats" which reads "..and must then pass a Strength 4+ test or lose 1 Dark Stone", does that also include items with Dark Stone icons? \b No. To elaborate, the exact rule for Dark Stone Symbols is "the Item (...) counts as one Dark Stone when considering how much Dark Stone a Hero is carrying.". Which means the Dark Stone Symbol is ONLY ever relevant when you need to count how many Dark Stone you have. The most common is of course the end of a mission, but there are other times as well, such as enemies prioritizing attacking the hero with the most Dark Stone and so on. There is an enemy that will steal Dark Stone and/or Dark Stone Items, but it's clearly marked on the card. I think it's an elite ability.\line\line I\b0 f a Hero is immune to "Weather Effects" does that include e.g War Chants (cards from Black Fang mission pack expansion) and other cards with keyword "Weather"? There's a War Chant named "Blood Rain" which has the following keywords "Chant. Magik. Blood. Weather" and it reads "Select a Random Hero. That Hero, and every other Hero within 2 spaces of him, immediately takes 2D6 Horror Hits and are -1 on all of their To Hit rolls during their next Activation (To Hit rolls of 6+ still count as Critical Hits)". If one or more heroes are immune to weather, is the entire card void for those that are immune? \b  If there's keyword Weather on the card, you should be immune to it's effects. \b0 (Also confirmed in the Black Fang rulebook FAQ)\b\line\line\b0 When instructed by a mission to place a specific tile, do you move the Hero Posse marker down as normal? \b Yes. \line\line\b0 If you roll 2 Hits against an Enemy with Armor 4+ and with 5 Health. One Hit does 4 total damage and the other does 3 total damage = 7 damage. Even if the Enemy only has 5 HP, do you roll 7 Armor dice or is "overkill" damage wasted as it usually is when defeating enemies in regards to e.g XP per Wound and thus, you only assign 5 damage and the Enemy will therefore roll 5 Armor dice? \b  I think you are overthinking things a bit. You deal 7 damage, so the Enemy rolls 7 dice for armor, that's it.\b0\line  \line\b Devil's Wheel:\b0\line You never roll 1 die at a time on the Devil's Wheel (unless, of course, you only have 1 die to roll). This means that you roll all 3 dice together at the start of a single "play", and all 3 must bounce off at least 1 wall before coming to rest. You get 2 extra "re-roll groups" after the first throw per play - each of those groups containing up to 3 of the dice that are currently sitting face up in the Devil's Wheel box and must abide by the wall-bounce rules as well. Dice that bounce outside the box get no special treatment - they are just simply dice that aren't getting you points, exactly like the any other than isn't sitting on the cards or wheel. You may re-roll them as described above in subsequent throws if you have any left on that Play. You can then repeat that ENTIRE process 2 more times (because you get 3 total Plays according to the Gambling Hall Town Card).\line\b EXAMPLE\b0\line I start my first Play at the Devil's Wheel (PLAY 1, THROW 1). I grab all 3 dice (brimstone dice, regulation dice, no substitutions here) and chuck them gently into the box generally aiming at the left wall. They bounce handily off of it and 1 comes to rest partially touching an Artifact Card showing a 6. The other 2 dice come to rest in the box, but not on anything of value. I then grab those 2 and prepare for PLAY 1, THROW 2. I chuck those 2 against the top wall this time and oh noes 1 bounces out of the box and smacks my cat directly in the face. She takes off down the stairs. The other die comes to rest inside the box but on nothing of value. Well dammit, that throw didn't go well. Time for PLAY 1, THROW 3: I grab the unvalued boxed die and the cat-facer die that is now on the floor (remember I still have 1 whole die sitting partial on an Artifact card that's still reading 6 that has remained untouched since the first THROW) and I try these 2 dice again, this time on the right wall. They bounce correctly; one lands not touching anything of value and the other knocks into the die already sitting on an Artifact card, pushing it up onto the Devil's Wheel itself - alright! After doing so, it comes to rest fully on the Artifact card that it just knocked the other dice off of (for better or worse). It shows a 3. I am now out of "rolls and re-rolls" for PLAY 1, so lets go to the scoreboard. \line Results of PLAY 1\line 1 Die touching nothing: 0 Points\line 1 Die wholly encompassed by an Artifact Card showing 3 pips: 6 Points\line 1 Die partially on the Devil's Wheel, partially on an Artifact card, and partially off of both showing 6 pips: 6 Points\line Total: 12 Points\line Money Earned: $50 (plus anything extra you get for being a Gambler, Gunslinger, having a Dark Stone Poker Chip, etc.)\line When that's all said and done, you still have a die touching the Wheel so if you wish you can go for the Jackpot and roll it again (anywhere, the box no longer matters during a Jackpot) to see if you get Corruption Points or an Artifact, based on the value of that roll. Once THAT is done, you may proceed with PLAY 2 (starting with THROW 1) and repeat these steps until you're done with PLAY 2. Then do PLAY 3. All PLAYs are optional of course (but each one costs $25 standard).\ul\b\fs28\par
\par
\ulnone\b0\fs22 1) Roll Shots/Combat\line 2) Spend Grit (if you want) to re-roll any dice from Step 1\line 3) Assign any number of Hits/Crits to a single target\line 4) Roll damage against that target for all of those assignments simultaneously\line 5) Spend Grit (if you want) to re-roll any dice from Step 4\line 6) Apply damage based on Monster defense\line 7) If you have Hits/Crits remaining, go to Step 3\line Step 7  is: If you have any hits remaining that you didn't assign to the first target, repeat steps 2-6. Note that you can totally choose the first target again if your first dice assigned to that target didn't kill it.\par
\par
Cover +4, what does it mean e.g in Hexcrawl? S\b ometimes a model will have a special Cover save allowing them to try and block each incoming Hit they are about to take. Cover saves work similar to a Defense roll (stopping an entire Hit when successfully rolled), but are made before Defense rolls. In addition, a model with a Cover save may still roll for it, even if the Hit ignores its Defense.\b0\line\line The Infamous Hitchcock Gang card states "Dynamite - When about to make a Ranged Attack, roll a D6. On the roll of 5 or 6, throws Dynamite instead. Place a Dynamite token in the Target's space and roll to Hit. This works like normal dynamite in every way (for Bounce, etc)". So if targeted by 3 Bandits, do you roll 3 times and thus for each 5-6 it results in 1 Dyamite each which can result in 3 (or more if more bandits) dynamites being placed? \b Yes, that's exactly how it would work.\b0\line\line\line Jargono Native's starting ability "Pit Fighter" reads "...Also, once per turn, while you have a Shield Equipped, you may force ONE Enemy Hit just rolled against you to be Re-rolled." If the Native is fighting against Bandits and 3 Bandits are targeting him. He has 3 Shootout tokens placed next to him. They have an Elite ability that increases their Shots from 3 to 5. They roll 15 dice. They hit on +5. They got 6,6,6,6,5,5,5. Their 6's have the following ability "Hail of Bullets - Bandit Ranged To Hit rolls of 6 cause 3 Hits each". Thus, they have 15 Hits. If the Native uses the Shields ability and force a 6 to be re-rolled and it results in a 1, will he take 12 Hits (effectively removing 3 Hits) or 14 Hits? \b 12 Hits. The 6 was rerolled and removed, so it doesn't contribute the extra hits.\b0\line\line The Jargono Native has an ability that gives him +2 Initiative in an Ambush Attack during the first turn. If you get Ambushed by a depth event and there's already enemies on the board from the previous rounds Room Exploration, will he get +2 Initiative against all Enemies or only against the Ambushing Enemy? \b  I'd conclude that you DO get the initiative bonus for that turn.  The rulebook has this passage: "If a new group of Enemies is placed by Ambush while a Fight is already going on, the new Enemies get the +2 Initiative during the first turn of the Fight they are involved in." which uses that same wording - "first turn" - even though the actual first turn of the combat has already passed. And you get the initiative bonus against all enemies, initiative is always only one value, never divided.\b0\line\line Does Shootout rules replace the standard rules found in the rulebook "Enemy Ranged Attacks" or are they used in tandem? \b Replaces. If the enemy has Shootout, use those rules!\b0\line\line Since you roll for Corruption before resetting to 1 Grit, you can spend your Grit on your Willpower saves and then get the Grit replenished. This feels a bit awkward but I can't find anything about losing Grit when KO'd or failing a mission so I guess this, while cheesy, is perfectly legal? \b It is absolutely legal!\line\line\b0 I know you're not allowed to use Grit on charts. But can you use Grit and/or the Gambler's Fortune Favour to reroll a stat gain from the upgrade chart? For example, gain D6 Health. Can I use a grit/fortune to reroll the D6?\b  The rule is that you cannot gain permanent bonuses from modified rolls. For example, if you use a Gambling Trick to make your surgery roll a 6+, you can do that but you don't get the +2HT. Because of this rule, modifying the dice on the Upgrade Chart would mean that you get no benefits from the upgrade (even if you could do it, which mostly you can't.) "If a roll on a chart is modified by any Item, Ability, or Re-Roll (turning dice to a specific face, counting a die roll as a specific value, etc), that chart result may not grant the Hero a Permanent bonus (new Keyword, extra Health/Sanity, +1 Max Grit, Skill Increase, etc). Any other benefits of the roll are still in effect as normal (such as Healing an Injury, drawing an Artifact, etc), but no permanent bonuses may be gained from that result." FAQ, pg 9, 'No permanent bonuses from Modified Chart Rolls. It seems clear to me that adding a random amount of Health/Sanity from an effect on the upgrade chart would fall under this rule. I would add as additional weak evidence that there is literally nothing in the game that allows you to mess with the random upgrade chart, and a rule that allows Gamblers (and Trickster Kitsune) to always get max +HT/Sanity from a random level up simply cannot be the designers' intent.\b0\par
\line When an Item or Ability makes reference to selecting \lquote any\rquote  die, this means any die (relative to any other restrictions mentioned in the text of the specific Item or Ability). This includes an Enemy\rquote s die, a die on a chart roll, or even one of the Hold Back the Darkness dice, etc.\par
\line Hits with unspecified Damage do 1 Damage to Heroes and D6 Damage to Enemies.\line\line Blizzard Depth Event in Targa Plataeu only ends if you roll another Weather effect. If you roll Blizzard again, nothing happens. \line\line Once per Adventure Items reset between the High Noon solo duel and the next Mission/Adventure. Revive tokens are a definite no-go for the the duel except Class based ones - or even like a \ldblquote next adventure one\rdblquote  - are legit. \line\line  "Changes targets" means "choose a target other than your current one". "Retarget" means "choose any legal target, current target included" \line\line\b The ruling was this (and it applies to Melee Free Attacks as well): No external Combat/Shot/+Dmg modifiers apply to Free Attacks, except for effects, items, and abilities that specifically apply to "Attacks". Examples: Dirty Fighting, Amulet of Balorn, any of the Preacher abilities that give them +dmg to Undead/Void/Demon. The mention of "Wounds" vs "Damage" does not matter, when determining applicability. This means that the Revised Version of Spinning Kick and Dark Stone Shivs do indeed benefit from Dirty Fighting.  \b0 Okay, just to clarify for the benefit of future readers who may find this post, the relevant words are "all your attacks" and nothing else. For example, the Preacher's Scourge of the Dead ability reads, "You are +1 damage on all your attacks against Undead enemies" [emphasis added], so a Preacher with a Free Attack item could use the bonus against Undead enemies. The previously mentioned Gambler with the High Roller ability which reads "To-Hit rolls of 6+ do +1 Damage" could not use the High Roller ability because it doesn't say "all your attacks". \b Right. Except you don't need the word "All" or even a "Your" (tho I cant think of an example that doesn't include at least one of those) - the mention of "Attacks" as the direct subject of the sentence, plus what modifiers they get, is enough.\line\line\b0 Some Free Attack items have upgrade slots. Wouldn't the ruling also limit what could be added to the Free Attack item? For example, a Void Assembly on Smuggler's Hold-Out Pistol would be a sweet modification, however since it doesn't say "all your attacks", wouldn't that make it ineligible for the upgrade? The same would apply to runes that do +1 Damage to Enemy Type X, because the it requires a "To-Hit" roll to get the bonus per the FAQ. \b No, because the Upgrade becomes legally part of the Item. At which point it skates through on the "internal" clause; its as if the Free Attack itself had the text of the Upgrade written directly on it. You can tell because if you lose the Item, you lose the Upgrade. That, and you can't actually unattach most of them. However, this does beg the question of why in the RAW Pistol Fanning explicitly says that Upgrades on Guns are not doubled as the results of its effects. On the other hand, maybe that is implicit reinforcement of the above rules; i.e. the fact that it must be called out at all indicates that its an exception to an base rule. \b0 I suppose the relationship works in the other direction as well? That +1 damage rune on a Free Attack Item would not apply to the Hero's normal attack because the Free Attack Item is not equipped/part of the normal attack assuming the unstated rule that runes must be equipped to be useful (not hiding in an Ornate Case, Scout Bag, or unequipped Item with a hand icon when no hands are available.) \b That is a very good question. I can see an argument either way. I tend to rule that if you put something Attack-specific ON a weapon, it only affects that weapon (i.e. dont do it if you dont have to). But that isn't authoritative in any way.\b0\par
\line If an Enemy can't do something e.g change targets, but is instructed to, then you do what you always do when you can't make an Enemy do something - you don't do anything.\par
\par
One thing I just learned is that the rules tell you that after a fight, and after you've resolved the end of fight stuff (catch your breath etc), the turn immediately ends. Which means that in the rare instance of a fight ending with an unflipped exploration token in the room, you WOULD NOT proceed right to phase 3 and flip the token. Instead, you would end the turn and start again at phase 1 (you'd have to hold back the darkness BEFORE flipping the exploration token).\par
\par
The Prospector's "Expert Miner" ability says "Whenever the Hero collects Gold or Dark Stone from a Loot, Scavenge or Encounter, double the amount". Does this apply only to the Prospector or to each hero in the posse? Same question with his other ability "Death Blow" which says "The Hero's To Hit rolls of 8+, double the damage rolled for that hit". \b Just the Prospector.\line\line\b0 When you gain corruption, if you'd gain 7 at once, would you remove 5 and keep 2 or remove all? \b Yes, use 5 for a mutation and leave two on the hero.\line\line\b0 Can I spend a grit to reroll movement instead of adding to my movement? And if so, does a reroll that rolls a 1 generates a grit? \b Yes. No.\line\line\b0 The HellBat's Flight ability says "HellBats move through other models and change targets each turn". If every Hero is targeted by 2 HellBats each, does this ability break the rule of each hero being as equally targeted as possible? Thus, when placing e.g 4 HellBats in a 2 player game. 2 HellBats will target each Hero. On the next turn, they roll for targeting and either stay on target or change and this could mean that one single hero is targeted by 4 HellBats? \b If all the heroes are targeted by two hellbats any one hellbat seeking a new target will retarget its current target hero as all the others are being attacked by two hellbats and he is not. If there are unequal numbers they will move around a bit. Say you have three hellbats attacking four heroes the first will target either the same hero on 1-3 or the hero with no hellbat on 4-6, then each will follow suit. This is only the case if the ability says "Re-targets each turn". If it says "Changes Targets each turn" then its current Target is not a valid selection unless its the only target on the board. Which means the first Hellbat will target one of the other Heroes, upping that Hero's bats to 3. The next one to target will automatically go to the first Hero, because he will then only have 1 Bat.\line\line\b0 The Tentacles Smash ability says "Tentacle To Hit rolls of 6+ ignore a Hero's defense". If a Hero is being attacked by 3 Tentacles, he will be attacked with 9 dice. Let's say they roll 6-6-6-5-5. Do the Hero being attacked still get to roll 5 Defense (to increase chances of defending against the 5 and 5) or do each 6 "cancel" one roll i.e I'd only get 2 dice to roll? \b No, he has no defence again the 666, only two defence dice against the 55\line\line\b0 Is it OK to roll for each models separately or do I have to roll all their combat dice at once? If I'm being attacked by 3 Tentacles, that's 9 dice at once or 3 at a time and thus 3 defense rolls? \b It should all be together.\line\line\b0  I read somewhere that you can use dynamite AND do an Attack per turn. But, one of the Prospectors startring upgrades "Blast Miner" says "Start every Adventure with 1 free Dynamite. You also gain: Free Attack (Once per Fight). Throw Dynamite". This implies that other heroes has to choose between a ranged/melee attack OR throw dynamite. \b Throwing Dynamite is a ranged attack, you can only do a ranged attack and a melee attack in the same turn if you have a Cutlass from the Frontier Outpost (useful for the Bandido). A Free Attack is extra.\line\line\b0 Amulet of Kotak artifact says "Once per Adventure, prevent all Damage a Hero is about to take from a single source". Can this be used against Horror as well as Wounds? \b  Yes sanity damage or wounds. \b0 This seems unambiguously correct given a reading of the RAW, but it's actually pretty unclear. You would think that "Damage" encompasses both "Wounds" and "Sanity Damage" but it doesn't always (nor does it encompass "Corruption" despite it being listed as a "Type of Damage" in the Rule Book). For instance, Cover says it protects from "Damage" but Jason himself told me that Damage = Wounds, and that if it meant to include Sanity Damage it would have specifically called it out. \b Extrapolating that here tells me this is a Wounds-only protection.\line\line\b0 Amulet of Heinghal artifact says "Once Per Adventure add an extra D6 Damage to a single Hit". Do I have to use this before rolling for damage or can I use it after? I think the Lawman has a starting upgrade "Frontier Justice" that says something like "Once per Fight/Adventure, spend 1 Grit to add +3 Damage to one Hit". Same question regarding that upgrade. \b You choose after rolling for normal damage.\line\par
\b0 Can I use Grit to reroll the D6 damage for Dynamite? \b Yes. It's your damage roll, so no problem.\line\line\b0 Enemies with Shootout e.g the Bandits "moves the shortest distance to not be adjacent", so they only move 1 space? Seems weird, they should move according to their move value as long as they stay in LOS and range imo. \b Well, if there are more heroes nearby they might need to move more than 1 square. But yeah, often it's just one step.\b0\line\line Combat determines how many dice you get to roll in melee. But if you use a weapon that uses D8 to hit, do you still roll your Combat value? For example, you have 3 Combat, you'd roll 3 D8? Seems a bit odd since the box only contain 1 D8. \b Yes. A weapon that modifies your melee attack affects all of the melee attack. Including base Combat and +Combat granted by another weapon, mutation, or similar.\b0\line\line If you encounter a Wandering Monster in an Other World and you draw one and its card displays e.g "1 Slashers and 2 low threats", are these additional threats drawn from the Other World threats or the normal threats? \b Otherworld cards! When you're in a certain world, you always use that world's threat cards.\b0\line\line  If you're attacking an enemy with a base value of 15 XP and +5 for each wound. If you make an attack that do 5 wounds and you resolve 1 hit at a time. you'd get 15 ONCE and then 5 for each wound no matter if you assign the wounds at the same time or if you assign them one by one, right? So you'd get 40 XP in total? Or is it per Hit? If so, you do 3 hits and 1 hit does 1 damage, 1 hit does 1 damage and 1 does 3 damage = 70? If you, on the same turn, have a free attack, it's a new attack so you'd get the base value again? \b You get 5 XP per wound inflicted. And if you do at least one wound, you get the base 15 XP as well (+5 per elite ability). It doesn't matter in which order you assign hits. And this is PER ATTACK, so a Free attack during the same activation can get the bonus XP again. Say you're against an enemy with one elite ability and a base XP of 15. You make your normal attack and get 2 hits for a total of 7 wounds. Then you do a free attack, getting 1 hit for 3 wounds. The XP gained would be: 7*5 + (15+5) + 3*5 + (15+5) = 90 XP.\b0\line\line High Noon Duel says that when completed, youre fully healed but if you fail i.e KO, you are rolling on the injury chart. Do you still get fully healed or should you just roll 2D6 as normal?\b You heal to full no matter what.\b0\line\line\line If I attack an enemy with 15 +5 (+5 via 1 elite ability). I do 3 hits that does 2-4-3. The first hit nets me 20 (15 + 5 for elite) + 10 = 30. The second hit nets me 20 and the third nets me 15. I only get the base value (15 and +5 elite = 20) for the first hit. \b This is correct. \b0  If I make another attack in the same turn via free attack, I'd get the base + elite xp again. Am I doing this right? \b Correct. According the rules the base xp gain is "during an attack"\line\line\b0 If a fight ends before 1 hero has activated (i.e moved and/or attacked) but used e.g a sermon, an item e.g a badge or whatever, do they still get the D6 healing/recover Grit or are they considered to have activated/taken actions and thus only get 1 D3/recover grit? \b Unclear. The rules text (at least in SOME rulebooks) is: "If the Fight ended before the Hero got to Activate, or take any Actions (such as casting a Spell), they instead get to..." "Action" is written with capital 'A', as though it was a well-defined term - but it's not - no such definition exists. And newer rulebooks don't have the extra clause "(such as casting a Spell)".\b0\line\line I guess that items and such that has "Once per Activation" isn't useable in Town? \b Correct. This is stated in the FAQ, but here's the short version. This applies to items with the text "Once per..."\line Turn/Fight - Only during an adventure. NOT during Travel.\line Adventure - Only during an adventure. NOT during Travel.\line Travel - Only during Travel.\line Town Stay/Day in Town/Location visit - Only during Town Stay.\b0\line\line When having the Tomb Chest, you can place 8 darkstone items/darkstone shard in it. Since many items have a dark stone icon e.g an upgrade and so on, do they count as hidden even if you use said upgrade/weapon etc during an Adventure? Thematically, no (except during travel and in town since you can put the item away) but for upkeeping purposes, since this game has that in spades already, I'd say that all things darkstone count as hidden up to 8 as that's the max amount for the tomb chest. \b Items that are Hidden "do not count as though they are being carried by your Hero in any way" (this is from the FAQ). So you can't use them and keep them hidden at the same time.\b0\line\line I love rolling dice but the reason I'm thinking of sometimes rolling defense and hits per enemy is cus I just fought the Scafford Highwaymen for the first time. They rolled 15 hits (!) vs me. I defended 5. They do 2 damage per hit, that's 20 damage. I have armor so I have to roll another 20 dice. Is this par for the course with this game? \b Yes. I recently fought the Thunderforged Titan and had to roll 70 dice for armor. This isn't in the rules, but when the number of dice gets overwhelming, I recommend just grouping them up. I rolled 14 dice, each representing 5 damage.\line\line\b0 If there's multiple effects happening in the beginning of a turn, can I choose the order? For example, I have to roll for FEAR, Movement/Grit and I want to use a Brimstone Ash. Can I use a Brimstone Ash sidebag token before rolling for FEAR?  \b The rules don't mention anything about ordering when you have multiple triggers at the same time. Since the rules system is made to be permissive, do them in whatever order you want. Brimstone Ash can be used at any time, so sure! You can even use it before your activation starts.\b0\line\line If there's 3 Corpse Piles and I kill one of them and use my other Hits to wound another one, I get the Base XP again right i.e Base XP is per attack AND per model? \b Unclear. The rules text only explains what happens when you attack a single enemy, which would suggest that you do get the base XP for each enemy. However, there's this one sentence "During a Hero\rquote s Attack, the Base XP is gained once if..." (emphasis not mine). Since that "once" is underlined, it's a reasonable interpretation that it means, well, ONCE once. \b0 (Because of the Official reply (first Q&A in this post, you should get the Base XP per model. \b My addendum.)\par
\par
\b0 A "source" should be a single instance of damage (like cave in or one of the Ancient One's special attacks) or is defined as all enemies in a group that just attacked you. A \lquote Source\rquote  is meant to include an Enemy or group of Enemies that are rolling all of their dice together for an Attack. We try to avoid rules/abilities that force players to worry about breaking up a group Attack into individual Enemy rolls that could be combined for time and convenience.\line\line Functionally the cap for Skills is 6 but there is a subtle difference between "+X to a skill" and "+X dice to a skill test". For instance, the Rope does the latter and is unaffected by skill caps since it only adds dice to a test and not value to an actual skill.\par
\par
 "All of your Attacks are + 1 Damage" includes Dynamite.  I realized that Dirty Fighting (Saloon Girl +1 DMG to all your Attacks ability) might be intentionally worded this way to prevent it from applying to things like Spinning Kick (Saloon Girl Upgrade "deal 2 wounds to an adjacent enemy.."). This upgrade isn't an attack, and so +dmg doesn't affect it. It does however generate an implied Hit, due to it doing 2 Wounds ignoring Defense. So, you still get XP from it.  Preacher built-in +dmg is another place that uses the terminology "Attacks" so I'm almost sure it was intentional now. This is why Judgements don't benefit from the +1 Damage to Undead ability - they aren't Attacks.\par
\par
Loot card is per Threat card added, not per Enemy! So, a Threat card that adds 3 Enemies is only 1 Loot card. Only the cards that have the actual monsters on them (including Darkness cards that result in a specific attack instead of drawing a threat card and Encounters) result in a loot card. You get loot from enemies spawned by Encounters (one loot card per source). You get loot cards for every card that adds monsters to a fight. So you get a loot card for a fight spawned by an encounter or darkness card. If a threat card tells you to draw 2 low threats, you'd get 2 loot cards, one for each low threat card that added monsters.\par
\par
I'm sometimes confused by Encounters which have an 'All Heroes' test, followed by a 'THEN...' effect. Is the 'then' supposed to be performed for each hero? Some cards seem like it is, while others make less sense that way, or are unclear. An example is 'Ransacked Vault': "(All Heroes Icon) CUNNING 5+ If successful, draw a Loot card for each 5+ rolled.\line Then...\line Roll a D6. On 1 or 2, Attack! - Draw a Threat that is one Threat Level higher than normal." \b This is two parts. You do the first part, then you do the second part. There\rquote s no conditional statement at all in the example, so everyone would roll to see if they get loot cards, then you would roll one D6 for the entire party.\par
\par
\b0 Attacks or encounters on the final exploration token are ignored in the final room. Does this include the scripted encounter if it's a unique room and you are using the "advanced encounters" optional rule? \b Yes. \b0\par
\par
The rules also state that you can elect what equipment (Ammo is also equipment)you are using at the start of every turn. \b "Equipment" isn't a thing. You can tell because its not capitalized and bolded in the rules, which means its not relevant to the mechanics. Gear is a thing. Clothing is a thing. And regarding restrictions on when you can assign stuff to your hands and Clothing Slots, there is no mention of Ammo or even Gear in general. You can use any other piece of Gear (Ammo included) whenever you please: before an attack, after you roll to Hit, on someone else's turn, after you roll damage (assuming said Gear isn't a healing item), at the end of the turn, whatever. The timing is the same as that of your abilities and side-bag tokens - if the rules don't say you can't use them at a certain time, then you can.\b0\par
\par
If I defeat the Oni and then the darkness escapes (get to the Heroes starting location), I know the mission is a failure, but do I draw a loot card for the Oni or do I get nothing? \b You only get loot if all the Enemies have been defeated. The rulebook says that if you're all KO'ed at the same time the mission ends "immediately" so if you somehow kill everything but die trying, you still lose and you don't get any loot.\par
\b0\line\line Defense prevents Hits, Armor prevents Wounds. And weirdly enough, armor work on anything that does not say otherwise  (Poison, burning etc).\par
\par
All encounters are revealed, all non-battle effects are resolved then all enemies are added for one huge battle.\par
\par
If one hero has no Grit but other Heroes have 1 or more Grit, the Growing Dread card can not be canceled.\par
\par
If multiple exploration tokens or encounters in a single turn,  you resolve all non Enemy parts of them or their encounters before placing the enemies on the board and starting the fight.\line\par
\line A chart roll to get "the Fever" can not be rerolled but the skill test can be rerolled. You can not reroll the chart roll but you can reroll test the the chart roll caused.\par
\par
A Hero may re-roll any chart Roll that would outright kill him (double mutations, Injury, Madness, Surgery at the Doc\rquote s Office, etc.). A Hero may re-roll any chart Roll for an attempt to remove an Injury/Madness/Mutation/Curse/Parasite.\par
\line Always multiply first, then add or subtract any modifiers.\par
\line You may use sidebag tokens in Town\par
\line The Locket says add +1 to all of your catch your breath rolls. Is the +1 applied to the D3 after I determine the healing or after I roll the die?  \b It's a D3+1.\b0\line\b\line\line\b0 While in Jargono, you get an extra +2 on Catch Your Breath rolls, which means you remove an additional 2 wound or sanity tokens from your hero.\par
\par
The term "Damage" is universal (whereas "Wounds" and "Sanity Damage" are not), meaning that "Void Enemies do +1 Damage" would give Hellbat Horror Hits (that resulted from their To-Hit rolls) +1 Sanity Damage against their target.\par
\par
Any Damage modifiers that are granted to \lquote an Attack\rquote  or \lquote all of your Attacks\rquote  may be applied to any Damage you cause from a Ranged Attack or Melee Attack (including Dynamite, a Dark Stone Shiv, etc.; but not Splash Damage - see below).  So when it says that all enemies get a +1 damage bonus to their "attacks", that just means that the damage bonus applies to both melee and ranged To Hit rolls.\par
\par
You can use basically any item, gear, or ability that doesn't involve your normal activation at any time. You can bandage, trade, Sermon, heal, Quickdraw, Badge, Swamp Salve, Bandido-Grit-For-Dynamite, etc.\par
\par
You can drop DS whenever you want. \line\line\line The Targa Pylon has 1 shot, so it rolls one die to hit. If it hits, roll a d6 to determine the number of hits. The Hero then rolls a number of Defense dice equal to the number of hits.\line\par
Enemies only move if something in their AI tells them to, and 'there's an open space over there which would free up a space for my buddy' isn't a trigger for movement. Enemies *do* move as far as possible toward their target, so they will circle around a Hero when they first approach. But once they've got tasty tasty hero meat, they don't think about tactically advantageous re-positions (Assuming standard move-and-target). That is, enemies already adjacent doesn't move/shift positions.\par
\par
Enemies get +1 damage to their attacks. If fighting a Tentacles that is 3 Combat 3 damage. If they hit 3 times and you fail to save all of them; is the damage 10, 3 per hit +1 for the attack or is it 12 damage 3+1 per hit. \b +1 damage to their attacks means EACH attack that hits is +1 damage. So in the above example, that's 12 damage.\b0\par
\par
With a revive token you still get your turn. It is a balancing mechanic (i.e. having 3 heroes instead of 4).\par
\par
You can use side bag tokens pretty much whenever. Your activation, their activation, after a monsters rolls its Hits on you, before you Hold Back The Darkness, etc. The only 2 real rules are:\line a) you have to wait for a break in the mechanics (between rolls, between phases, between things happening) and b) you can't heal yourself after finding out how much damage you're going to be taking, before taking that damage.\par
\par
Technically, if the thing you're trying to do isn't an Action, a Move, an Attack, or the result of some other game event then you can pretty much do it whenever you like (between any 2 discrete game events - like between rolling Hits and Damage). This includes using Side Bag Tokens, Items, Abilities, Upgrades, Sermons, etc. Yes, even before Hold Back the Darkness.\line\line As far as healing goes, if the Ability or Item or whatever you want to use doesn't specifically tells you that it can be used to heal other Heroes, then it can't. Hardened Resolve has this wording. Side Bag Tokens have this wording too (although it's buried in the Rulebook and hard to find). The Cantine does not. Nor does the White Hat.\line\line At the intersection of these two concepts (timing and healing), there exists a rule that says that a Hero cannot be healed during the time between "knowing for sure how much damage you're taking" and "accepting the consequences of that damage." This means that if a monster has potential lethal damage coming at you, BUT you have yet to roll Defense (or Armor) - you can still be healed (because you don't know exactly how much damage you will be taking yet). But once that last Defense (or Armor) roll is made, you must accept the results (being KO'ed) before you have the opportunity to use items and abilities again. Long story short - if an Attack might KO you, you have to decide whether or not to get help before finding out if it actually will KO you. Once you know for sure, you must accept that outcome before doing anything else.\line\line Otherwise, they may be used essentially at any time during a turn. The one exception, is that nothing may 'interrupt' the application of any sort of damage (wounds or sanity) once the actual amount has been determined. Once the amount of damage has been 'set in stone', it is immediately applied to the Hero and the application of this damage cannot be interrupted.\line So (for example):\line - you can use Bandages after the Enemy has rolled to hit, but before you roll Defense. If you don't have any armor, once you've rolled Defense any unsaved wounds are automatically damage that will be immediately applied.\line - If you have armor, you can use bandages after you roll Defense, but before you roll for your armor. Once you've rolled your armor roll, any unsaved wounds are automatically and immediately applied to the Hero.\par
You can't heal once you know for sure how much damage you will be taking. For instance, you can heal before you Defense but not after - unless you also have Armor (this places another level of uncertainty between you and damage).\par
You can't heal mid "step" in any given phase or activation. For instance, you can't heal someone mid-movement but you can heal between Hits and Defense (separate steps of combat). \par
\line We've always allowed heroes to roll Escape tests before deciding to spend grit on extra movement. So they start moving with their initial roll, then make the Escape test, then spend grit if they want to move further than their initial roll allowed. Or they could not spend the grit if they failed the Escape test. \par
\line I have two one-handed melee weapons, one is simple, the other adds +1 combat, does it work only on this weapon or does it add one die to the other? and I roll my dice for everyone, is that right? \b It adds to your overall combat, so for example if your combat is 2 and your weapons add +1, you roll 3 dice.\line\line\b0 If your other hand weapon says it adds +1 Damage. Does it only add it for the original 2 dices that are your combat dice or all 3 from the other 1 handed item that added the +1 Combat? \b Your weapon bonus apply to both (or all three) melee weapons. + combat, damage, etc. For ranged weapons, the number of shot is fixed per weapon so if you have an outlaw pistol with 3 shots and a Judge with 3 shots you have shots that you roll for your to-hit ranged. The guns also will say "Uses the D8 to hit" and that only applies to the Judge, not the outlaw pistol.\line\line\b0 Hand weapons provide bonuses to this melee attack, improving it. Any bonus a hand weapon provides applies to all of the melee attack. For example, if you have one weapon that says "+1 Combat" and one that says "Use D8 for damage", then your melee attack is now Combat 3, dealing 1d8 damage per hit. The hits are not specific to any weapon, they are all part of your melee attack. If you have, I dunno, a HAT that says "+1 Combat", it works the same way. The weapons are not special for being weapons. So yeah, you can look at it like having a basic melee attack, and hand weapons being normal pieces of gear that just so happen to improve that attack. The confusing part is that it's the COMPLETE OPPOSITE for ranged attacks. There, you're entirely dependent on the weapon to provide you with an attack, and different ranged weapons interact very little with each other.\par
Here I have 2 combat, 2 single-armed axes (different), one weapon +2 damage, the second + 1 combat, do I roll 3 dice 2 times or only 3 dice(for each ax separately), but with plus 2 damage? \b In your example, your combat value for an attack would be 3(and you only make one attack per turn unless a special ability states otherwise), and +2 damage would be applied to all of those hits. There is no concept of separate attacks with each weapon. All combat bonuses from multiple melee weapons combine into one attack.\line\line\b0 Is it possible to throw Dynamite even when you have monster in melee range? As normally with ranged weapons you would be forced to target them, I'm not sure if Dynamite can be thrown normally or not in such cases?  \b Yes, you can. You use dynamite instead of range attack, but it doesn't mean that it use the same rules/restrictions. It actually says you can throw it AS a Ranged Attack (not "instead of"). This is an important distinction, because it means you can use a Cavalry Saber (which is a special item allowing you to do a Ranged Attack and Melee Attack) to Melee+Chuck-Dynamite in the same Turn. \ul\par
\ulnone\line\b0 I have an axe that gives me +1 Initiative. At the start of my turn I select my shotgun that takes two hands to use. So I am not using my axe this turn. Does this mean the +1 Initiative does not apply?  \b At the start of a Hero\rquote s Activation each turn, the Hero may decide what Items they want to assign to their two Hand slots. Any of the Hero\rquote s other unassigned Items that require one or two Hands to use, do not give the Hero any benefit from their card text. With your example, you could start the fight with your axe equipped, receiving the +1 Initiative at the beginning of the fight turn. Then when it's your activation you choose to equip your shotgun. This would mean that at the beginning of the next turn you would not receive the +1 Initiative.\b0\par
\par
If both of my heroes are at the same store, the rulebook seems to say that each character is supposed to roll for the store event before doing anything else. But, at least thematically, it seems a little weird.  E.g if they're both at the Dr's Office, and Hero 1 rolls low, the doc is caught doing experiments and hightails it out of town. The location isn't closed, but the doc is gone so no surgery is available. But right after that, if Hero 2 rolls high, suddenly the doctor is back in the office and everything is back to normal. Wondering if I'm misunderstanding the rules - are you only supposed to roll once each day for each location (regardless of the # of heroes there)? \b Each player rolls for their location event. Easiest way to explain it is that the low results usually trump the high results. We usually resolve each location\rquote s highest event, then proceed to lower ones. Then we move on to the next location\rquote s events, and so on. Once we resolve all of the location event rolls in all locations then we shop. Never know when a bad event roll in one location might affect a different location. \par
\line\b0 If 2 Heroes go to the same location, is one roll made or do they each roll separately? \b They roll separately.\line\line\line\ul Adventure Books (last page's) FAQ: \line\ulnone\line\line\b0 Because the Map Tiles are double-sided, what do you do if a Map card is drawn in an Other World, but the Mine side of that same tile is already in play? \b Most players will want to remove older Map Tiles as they explore to make room for the new areas discovered as you go (unless you have a really giant table). That being the case, this won\rquote t come up that often. When it does, simply discard the Map card and draw a new one to replace it.\line\line\b0 Do the Heroes get to draw a Loot for a Threat card that has you draw additional Threat cards but doesn\rquote t actually add Enemies itself? \b No. For Threat cards that say something like, \ldblquote Draw 2 Low Threats\rdblquote , the Heroes get Loot for each of the two Low Threats, but not for the card that just has you draw the Low Threats.\line\line\b0 What happens if no Map Tile can be placed at a Door because any tile would overlap an existing part of the map? \b In this case, that exit is not a valid Door location when rolling for where the Doors are placed in that room.\line\line\b0 What happens if you look through a Gate while all of the World Cards are still in play? \b This should be very rare as World Cards are returned to the Deck as soon as there are no Heroes in that World. If it does occur, the Gate will always lead back to the World you started the Adventure in (usually the Mines).\line\b0\line If you are called on more than once to place additional Enemies when you don\rquote t have any more models for them available, do they get an Elite ability for each time? \b The Enemies gain an Elite ability when you would have to place more of them on the board but have no available models to do so. This is limited to once per turn, no matter how many instances of that Enemy you are called on to place but cannot.\line\par
\b0 Is it ok to remove previous parts of the Map as you explore new areas (not all tables are giant)? \b Yes. As long as you don\rquote t think you will be going back to that area, it should be fine. This can also leave more room for the map to twist and turn and not be blocked by previous Map Tiles (imagine that it is winding down deeper as you go).\line\line\b0 Does an Enemy that is displaced, by a larger Enemy moving through it, need to choose a new target if it is still adjacent to its original target after being displaced? \b A) No. The displaced Enemy will only select a new target if it is no longer adjacent to its original target.\line\line\b0 Does Spirit Armor prevent Corruption Points? \b No, only Sanity Damage.\line\line\b0 If a new group of Enemies appears with Ambush during a Fight, and there are already Enemies of that Type on the board, do the existing Enemies of that Type get the +2 Initiative, or only the new Enemies? \b All Enemies of that Type get the bonus +2 Initiative.\line\line\b0 What happens if you have a group of normal Enemies (such as HellBats) in an Other World, and then a new group of Enemies enters play that are an Other World variation on the same Enemy Type (such as BogBats)?  \b Unless you have models to specifically represent both Types of Enemies, all of these Enemies will immediately become the Other World specific version of the Enemy Type (so in the example, the existing HellBats would immediately become BogBats).\line\line\b0 With Hero Upgrade Abilities, such as the Rancher\rquote s \ldblquote I\rquote ve Seen Worse!\rdblquote  and the Lawman\rquote s Never Gives Up, that allow a KO\rquote d Hero to Heal and get placed back on the board, does this Hero need to roll for Injury/Madness? \b No. These Abilities allow the Hero to get back into the fight without having to take an Injury/Madness.\line\line\b0 What happens if the Growing Dread card Dripping Gore is revealed during a Fight? \b It immediately goes into effect, reducing the Heroes\rquote  Initiative beginning at the start of the next Fight turn.\line\line\b0 With the Encounter card Explosives, does a Hero get XP for Enemies killed by a blast going off?\b  No.\line\line\b0 Does the Bandido\rquote s Swingin\rquote  Fists Upgrade Ability affect Heroes as well? \b Yes, so stand clear.\line\line\b0 How does the Growing Dread card Cosmic Insignificance work? \b For every Willpower save failed, permanently reduce your Sanity by 1 rather than adding a Sanity Damage marker to your Hero.\line\line\ul Gates of Valhalla Adventure Book (last page's)  FAQ:\line\line\ulnone\b0 The Camp Upgrades "Growing Camp"," Thriving Camp" and "Legendary Camp" require all Camp Locations to be of a certain Level. Does this include Locked Location Slots? \b No. It only includes Unlocked Locations. If a Location is Unlocked after this Upgrade is taken, the Upgrade is lost until the requirements are met once again.\line\line\b0 When Enemies enter play during a Fight (for instance with the Adjutant Codex for the Targa Librarian), do they get to Activate during that turn? \b Yes, but only if their Initiative level has not already been passed.\line\line\b0 Can the Viking Warrior Ally ability "For the Clan" be used once per turn for each Viking Warrior in play? \b No. It may only be used once per turn, for all Heroes, regardless of how many Viking Warriors Allies are in play.\line\line\b0 What happens when a Gremian gets +1 Combat? \b No effect. The Gremian's "Mischief" ability is a special Attack and is not affected by modifiers.\line\line\b0 With the Gremians "Sneaky" ability, do you still add a Gremian even if a Hero's To Hit roll of 1 is then Rerolled? \b Yes.\line\line\b0 Does a Centurion's "Blast Shield" still throw a Hero back if the Centurion is killed by the attack? \b Yes. \ul\line\line\line\line Spanish Fort Adventure Book (last page's) FAQ:\line\line\ulnone\b0 When using the "Fencing" ability from the Conquistador Upgrade Chart, does a Temple Guard take damage for the To Hit rolls of 1 it gets before Rerolling them for its "Gortek'a Training"? \b No. A Temple Guard Rerolls its To Hit rolls of 1 before this ability triggers.\line\line\b0 If an Enemy is killed by the "Fencing" ability, does it still gets to complete its other Hits? \b No. Any wounds from "Fencing" are resolved before the Enemy's other Hits, so the other Hits are lost when the Enemy is killed. \line\line\b0 What happens if a model that moves through other models has its move stopped/ended while in the same space as another model (such as in Mission 7 where Heroes can potentially prevent an Enemy from moving out of an adjacent space)? \b If a model would be stopped in the same space as another model, it is instead moved back to the last empty space it occupied. Note that Creeping Shadows would just be stopped where they are, as they may be in the same space as another model. \line\line\b0 In Mission 6: Run Through the Jungle, what happens to the Number Counter for a path if the Heroes decide to back track and go a different way before that Number Counter is revealed? \b Leave the Number Counter facedown at the start of its path (where it was originally placed). \line\line\b0 What happens with Ambition if a Hero is allowed to Recover Grit up to their Max Grit? \b First determine how many Grit could be Recovered then decide how much the Hero wants to take as Grit, and how much to take as Ambition.\line\line\ul Forbidden Fortress Adventure Book (last page's) FAQ:\line\line\ulnone\b0 Do Critical Hits, Explosives (like Bombs), and other things that ignore Defense also ignore the Armor ability? \b No. Armor is only ignored if explicitly called out.\line\line\b0 Is there a minimum Max Grit? \b Yes. A Hero's Max Grit is minimum 1.\line\line\b0 What happens if a model that cannot move through Barriers ever finds itself enclosed behind Barriers? \b Any model in an area enclosed by Barriers is allowed to move through Barriers until they are no longer enclosed.\line\line\b0 Does the Darkness card "Overpowered" add to the damage caused by Acid Blobs with their Digestive Juices? \b Yes. Digestive Juices is used instead of a normal Attack using Combat, but it is still an Attack.\line\line\b0 Can Items or abilities that are "Once Per Turn" be used during Travel or Town? What about "Once Per Adventure"? \b No. There are no "Turns" during Travel and Town Stay, only "Days in Town". The only Limited Use elements that may be used during Travel and Town Stay are those that are listed as "Once Per Travel" or "Once Per Day in Town", etc.\line\line\b0 Hero Skills max out at 6. What happens if I get a Random Upgrade or choose a skill tree ability that would add to a Skill value that is already at 6? \b In these cases, the player may choose a different one of their Skills that is not yet at 6 to apply the bonus to instead.\line\line\b0 Some areas of Town are restricted by a Hero's Keywords (Samurai Only, etc). How does this work with the Items that can be purchased in these restricted areas? Can they be traded away to Heroes that don't meed the restrictions after purchase? \b No. All Items and events in a Town Location that is restricted like this are assumed to have that same Restriction on the Item itself as well.\ul\line\line\line\line Undead Outlaws Rulebook FAQ:\ulnone\line\line\b0 With the Cursed Coin Gear card, what happens to the coin if the Curse is Cured? \b If the Curse is Cured, the Coin becomes a regular coin with no value and is simply discarded.\line\line\b0 What is the Range of the Dynamite for Tuco Vaca's "Border Raiders" Infamous Undead Outlaws? \b The Dynamite Range is 6, the same as the Range for their normal Ranged Attack.\line\line\b0 If Tuco Vaca's "Border Raiders" get the Elite ability "Need For Revenge", do they get "+2 Shots" with their Dynamite? \b No. Only when using their Twin Irons. \line\line\ul Flesh Stalker & Flesh Drones Rulebook FAQ:\line\line\ulnone\b0 The Tools of Terror card Time Splicer allows the Flesh Stalker to Activate multiple times during the turn, while his Interdimensional Phasing ability says that the Flesh Stalker changes targets "each turn". Does he change targets for each Activation, or does he stay on the same target for the entire turn? \b While using the Time Splicer, the Flesh Stalker will change targets for each Activation.\line\line\b0 The Experi-Mortis Derelict Ship Encounter card makes reference to Necronaut Enemies that are not included in this set. Where do I find Necronauts? \b The Necronauts are an Enemy Type that comes with the Derelict Ship OtherWorld Expansion. Using any of the Derelict Ship Encounters or Derelict Ship Artifacts requires having the Derelict Ship OItherWorld Expansion.\line\line\b0 For the Alter History Fiendish Goal card, the Heroes need to cause Critical Hits to the Flesh Stalker, but he is immune to Critical Hits unless you are adjacent to him. Do Critical Hits from a distance count, even though he is immune to them? \b No, only successful Critical Hits count for this.\line\line\b0 When fighting 2 Flesh Stalkers with the "Flesh Stalker Collective" Epic Threat, do they both use the same Tools of Terror card each turn, or do they each draw? Is it possible for them to draw the same Tool? \b Each Flesh Stalker should draw his own Tools of Terror card each turn. By default, it is intended that they would both draw from the same deck so they would not be able to have the same Tool. That being said, it would be perfectly acceptable to put the first Tool drawn back into the deck just long enough for the second draw, so that they could possibly end up both having the same Tool.\line\line\b0 If an Enemy Group with Sinister Experiments already has a Ranged Attack and they get another, which do they use? \b If they already have a Ranged Attack, Re-roll any Experiments that would give them another. \line\line\b0 What if the Flesh Stalker has no valid target based on the special rules of his Fiendish Goal? \b He just selects a Target as normal. Also, a special rule form of target selection on a Fiendish Goal overrides any other special target selection (such as for being Bio-Scan Tagged, etc).\line\line\ul Serpentmen Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 The Bloodbane Tribe makes all Poison Markers more likely to do damage to a Hero. Does this effect Poison Markers that a Hero had before the Tribe card was drawn? \b Yes. The poison is still more deadly, even if you didn't realize until too late that it was a Bloodbane poison.\line\line\b0 The Bloodbane Tribe does +1 Damage on all Combat Hits. Is this +1 added before or after doubling the damage for rolling a 6 To Hit with their Dark Stone Weapons? \b Bonuses are always added AFTER doubling a value like this.\line\line\b0 Do the bonuses for a Serpentmen Tribe also affect a Serpentmen Shaman, or just the Warriors? \b Bonuses for a Serpentmen Tribe affect all Enemies that are Keyword Serpentmen, including the Shaman.\line\line\b0 The Serpent Magik spell Maelstorm bounces an affected Hero like Dynamite. How does this work? \b A Hero bounced like this is moved 3 spaces in Random directions, using the Dynamite Bounce Chart. This bounce will move the Hero model through any other models in the path, but if the space they would end on is already occupied (or would hit a wall), place the Hero in the last unoccupied space moved through.\line\line\b0 When using Low Threats, it is possible to encounter a Serpentmen Shaman without any warriors. The Shaman record sheet does not tell you to draw a Tribe card. Does he not have a Tribe? \b A Serpentmen Tribe card should still be drawn. This was left out to save space on the Enemy Record Sheet as Shamans most often appear with Warriors. \line\line\line\ul Masters of the Void Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 Does the Void Magik spell Summoning Ritual generate a Loot card for the heroes? \b No. The Summoning Ritual spell adds Enemies to the fight, but it does not generate additional Loot cards for the Heroes. \line\line\b0 The Wave of Mutation Void Magik spell references "Void Spellcasters". What does that mean? \b A "Void Spellcaster" is any Enemy that uses Void Magik to cast spells.\line\line\b0 The Reading from the Book of Tarn Void Magik spell forces Heroes to discard Grit. Is it possible to use Grit before needing to discard it? \b No. The spell instructs Heroes to instantly roll for each Grit they have. When something is done instantly like this, nothing can be done to interrupt it. \line\line\b0 With the Book of Tarn artifact, do all Heroes need to choose the same benefit, or does each Hero choose individually? \b Each Hero may choose their own benefit. \line\line\line\ul The Scafford Gang Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 In the Most Wanted Mission with the Trapped Beast Outlaw Trap, how would the Hulking Beast Hideous Mutation card work? \b The Enemy gains all of the listed bonuses, and ignores references to Abilities it doesn't have (such as Shootout). This will never reduce the Size of the Enemy or lower its XP value though.\line\line\b0 If Colonel Scafford has his Bitter Feud Elite ability, giving all Scafford models +1 Health, and then he dies, what happens to any remaining Scafford models that only had 1 Health remaining? \b When Colonel Scafford is defeated, all bonuses from his Elite Abilities would go with him. If losing the +1 Health bonus means that a Scafford model suddenly has Wounds equal to his Health, that model is also immediately killed. Whoever did the last Wound to Colonel Scafford gains the XP for any additional Enemies also killed.\line\line\line\line\ul Onmorake Carrion Phoenix Rulebook FAQ:\line\line\line\ulnone\b0 For the Box of Death Encounter card, if the Skill test is failed, each Hero must draw a Vile Plague to affect him. How long does this effect last? What if there are 6 Heroes (and only 5 Vile Plague cards)? \b The Vile Plagues for this Encounter are associated with the Corpse Tokens placed by the Encounter. If the Heroes move away from the Corpse Tokens/Enemies that Rise Up from them, the Vile Plagues no longer affect them. The sixth Hero should draw from the full stack and will be doubled up with one of the others.\line\line\b0 In the Burning Beast Mission, what happens ifa Hero uses an ability or item to cancel and re-draw an Exploration Token? \b This works as normal. In addition, when an Exploration Token is canceled and re-drawn, any Number Counter on that Tile must also be shuffled back into the stack and re-drawn as well.\line\line\line\ul Shadow Clan Ninja Rulebook FAQ:\line\line\line\ulnone\b0 In the Shadow War Mission using the Master Stroke game length, what if you do not have any Fortress Artifacts for the Reward? \b In this case, draw from any Earth-based Artifact cards instead (Mines, Canyons, etc).\line\line\b0 In the Shadow War Mission, what happens if a Shadow Clan Leader would need to be drawn? \b Instead of drawing randomly, search the deck for the Shadow Clan Leader that matches the Shadow Clan card already in play.\line\line\b0 In the Master of Death Mission, one of the traps makes reference to a Bomb Token. What is that? \b For players that do not have the Forbidden Fortress Core Set, a Bomb Token is treated exactly the same as a Dynamite Token.\ul\par
\ulnone\line\line\ul Beli'al Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 On the Brutal side of the Beli'al Enemy Record Sheet, his Escape Value says, "There is no Escape". What does this mean? \b It means that all Escape tests made while adjacent to Brutal Beli'al automatically fail, regardless of any abilities or items.\line\line\b0 In the Cynder Encounter "Prison of the Madman", when you "Call out to Him", is it correct that you take the 2D6 Horror Hits whether you pass or fail the test? \b Yes. \line\line\b0 With a Hero's Critical Hit that is used to target Beli'al's Key of Defiance, does this still cause a Corruption Hit from the Armor of Darkness? \b No. The Key of Defiance ability says "instead of striking his Armor", so Armor of Darkness does not affect Hits that target the Key. \line\line\b0 Why does the Shadow Magik Spell "Firestorm" do Sanity Damage from its "gouts of fire erupting all around"? \b This is the pure hate fire, born from the darkness of a thousand millennia alone, trapped in a prison of eternal pain and suffering from which there can be no escape. Hey, you asked.\line\line\b0 For Beli'al's "Burning Runes" Elite Ability, is the Hit done back to the Hero a basic Hit or in some way related to the Hero's Attack? \b It is just a basic Hit. \line\line\line\ul Norse Dwarf Rulebook FAQ:\line\line\ulnone\line\b0 The Expert Scavenger ability on the Norse Dwarf character Sheet lets you draw 2 Scavenge cards for every 6+ rolled on a Scavenge test. Do you have to? \b Yes. Once you make the decision to Scavenge, you must draw 2 cards for each 6+ rolled (dwarves are not known for their self-control). \line\line\b0 Can other Heroes visit the Dwarf Cave? Can you buy Items/Side Bag Tokens at the Dwarf Cave to give to other Heroes? \b As noted on the Dwarf Cave Location Card - No. Dwarves are a secretive bunch and they only let Dwarf Heroes into the Cave. All Items (even Side Bag Tokens) purchased at the Dwarf Cave are considered to have the Dwarf Hero Only restriction on them. \line\line\b0 On the Upgrade Skill Tree the Rune Smith ability makes all Items you are carrying with at least 1 Upgrade Slot gain 1 extra. What happens if you fill that Slot and then give the Item to another Hero? \b While the Slot is filled with an Item Upgrade, the Slot remains on the Item, even if the Item is no longer in your Dwarf's possession. \line\line\b0 The Runic Silver Item gives you a chance to Recover Grit whenever a Darkness or Growing Dread card is drawn. The Runic Ward ability on the Upgrade Skill Tree lets you spend Dark Stone to try and cancel a Darkness or Growing Dread card as it is drawn. Can you Recover a Grit and then also cancel the card? \b Yes. \line\line\line\ul Ulfsark Skinwalker Rulebook FAQ:\line\line\line\ulnone\b0 If you take enough Wounds to be KO'd in Human form, but this would give you enough Rage to Transform, do you? \b No. Rage is not collected until after all the Wounds are applied.\line\line\b0 If you would gain more Rage than your max in Human form, and it causes you to Transform, do you get to keep the overflow Rage because of your Werewolf form's higher Max Rage? \b Yes.\line\line\b0 If you have 20 Wounds on you in Werewolf form, then transform back to Human form at the end of a Turn, are you KO'd? Do you still have 20 Wounds on you? \b Yes, you would be KO'd when you Transform back to Human form with only Health 12 and so many Wounds. Any excess Wounds on you beyond your Health would be discarded. Then when you Recover and get to Heal, it would be from a point of having 12 Wounds on you (your current Health value). \line\line\b0 With the Spirit Commune Skill Tree Upgrade: 1) What if you are playing with only a single Hero? 2) What if the chosen Starting Upgrade would have you use a specific version of a Hero Character Sheet (such as for Team Heroes)? \b 1) Choose an unused Ulfsark Starting Upgrade instead. 2) Ignore any reference to using a different Character Sheet. \line\line\line\line\ul Frontier Town Rulebook FAQ:\ulnone\line\line\line\b0 Can a model move diagonally around the corner of a Building Wall? \b Yes.\par
\b0 Can a Melee Attack be made through a Wall? \b No. Unless there is a Door or Window that the Attacker can see his target through, directly on the other side. \line\line\b0 A model can only move straight through a Door, not diagonally through. How does this affect Diagonal Doors? \b A model in a Diagonal Door space may not move diagonally out, around the angled corner of the Wall. Also, a model may not Lean out of a Diagonal Door (splitting the space) as the Door itself is withing a single space. \line\line\b0 Does a model that is splitting a space (i.e - Leaning around a Corner) block movement through both spaces? Can they Melee Attack or be Attacked from either space? \b Yes, Yes and Yes. \line\line\b0 If an Enemy such as Bandits have a Bounty on them, does this also count modified versions of that Enemy (i.e Infamous Bandits or OtherWorld version of an Enemy)? \b Yes. A Bounty includes any Enemy that uses that Enemy record sheet.\line\line\b0 Infamous Bandits already have a Bounty on their card. Does this stack with a Bounty from the Frontier Outpost or Sheriff's Office? \b Yes. Just add the Bounties together for each model.\line\line\b0 The Hitchcock Gang Infamous Bandits throw Dynamite. What is the Range? \b The Range for their Dynamite is the same as the Range for their normal Ranged Attack, 6 spaces if armed with a Bandit Pistol, 12 if armed with a Bandit Rifle - this keeps things simple and it is assumed that because the Bandit with a Rifle is on a Rooftop, he is trained to lob Dynamite further. \line\line\b0 What happens if the Artifact cards or Devil's Head token are accidentally moved while playing The Devil's Wheel? \b Leave them in their new position and count the points as normal for dice partially on or fully on. Then re-set everything before the next round is played. \line\line\b0 What if a Law Hero becomes "Wanted!" in Town? \b While a Hero has the "Wanted!" status, they gain the keyword Outlaw. This temporarily replaces their keyword Law until the "Wanted!" status is removed.\par
\line\line\ul Feudal Village Rulebook FAQ:\line\par
\ulnone\b0 If an Enemy like the Feudal Bandits have a Warlord's Bounty on them, does this also count modified versions of that Enemy (ie - Infamous Feudal Bandits, etc)? \b Yes. A Warlord's Bounty includes any Enemy that use that Enemy Record Sheet.\line\line\b0 Infamous Feudal Bandits already have Bounty on their card. Does this stack with a Warlord's Bounty? \b Yes. Just add the Bounties together for each model.\line\line\b0 Does the Dark Stone Tattoo in the Outlaw Haven take a Tattoo slot like the tattoos from the Tavern? \b No. It is a Dark Stone ink integrated through all of your tattoos.\b0\line\b\line\line\ul Blasted Wastes Rulebook FAQ:\ulnone\line\line\line\b0 Ghost Warriors Enemies Phase Jitter ability says that "Hero Ranged Attacks will only Hit them on To Hit rolls of 5+". What does this mean? \b When a Hero makes a Ranged Attack, only dice that rolled 5 or higher To Hit may be assigned to a Ghost Warrior Enemy. If only Ghost Warriors are adjacent to the Hero, as normal, Hits may NOT be assigned to other Enemies that are non-adjacent (those Hits that rolled 4 or less are wasted).\line\line\b0 The Night Runners Wasteland Warband ability Nocturnal gives them a bonus at Night. Does this include Dusk? \b Yes. As noted on the Sun Track, Dusk also counts as Night and Dawn also counts as Day.\line\line\b0 If a Hero is standing on the puzzle cut space between 2 Map Tiles that both have an Acid Pool on them at Night, does he take twice the Hits from the Night Mist? \b No. A Hero is either affected by Night Mist or not. \line\line\b0 If I have the expanded Frontier Town expansion, can I use the Town Daily Events deck and Specialty Town Types with the Wasteland Barter Town? \b Not really. Those elements are not intended to be used in conjunction with any Towns other than Old West Frontier Town.\line\line\b0 The Scavenger Warparty Epic Threat card references a "Scavenger Warlord" and a "Scavenger Warmaster". Are these the same as the Wasteland Warlord/Warmaster? \b Yes. They are the same thing.\line\line\b0 Does a Scavenger Heavy still use Snap Fire? \b Yes.\line\line\b0 If you are called on to place more Scavenger Heavies than you have models, does this add an Elite ability to just the Heavies or all of the normal Scavengers as well? \b It adds an Elite ability to all of the Scavengers Enemy group, including the Heavies. Note that only 1 extra Elite ability is added, even if you are short on models for both normal Scavengers and Heavies.\line\line\b0 In the Water of Life Mission, can I use a Life Water Artifact card to count as one of the Mission Objectives? \b Yes. At the start of any turn, if there are no Enemies on the board, you may complete the Mission by discarding Life Water Artifact cards equal to the number that still need to be "found" for the Mission Objective. \line\line\b0 With the Canyon Encounter River Crossing, what if there are no Map Cards remaining with "Water" in the title? Is it possible to go back once you have crossed? \b If there are no Map Cards with "Water" in the title left to be drawn, the Heroes may not cross. Once crossed, the Heroes may not go back to the other side. \line\line\b0 Are Heroes that get too far from the Lantern in the Canyons still affected by Voices in the Dark, even though its outdoors and the light out? \b Yes. There are always dark caves and shadows nearby to whisper into the Heroes' minds. \line\line\b0 If the Canyon is a World, but not an OtherWorld, does this mean that the Loot cards "What's this?!" and "This Should Come in Handy" just work the same as in the Mines? \b Yes.\line\line\line\ul Caverns of Cynder Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 What happens to Burning Markers on my Hero at the end of an Adventure? \b All Burning Markers are removed along with Wounds, Sanity Damage, etc.\line\line\b0 What if I have one or more Burning Markers and then become Immune to Burning Markers? \b Any Burning Markers you have are removed at the start of a turn in which you are Immune to them.\line\line\b0 Can I Attack an Enemy that is on a Pit area? \b Yes. For Ranged Attacks, just make sure that you count the Pit area that the Enemy is in as 2 spaces of Range. For Melee Attacks, you just need to be in any space adjacent to the Pit area.\line\line\b0 In the Defend the Bridge Mission, do the Heroes get to draw Loot or Catch their Breath if there are no Enemies on the board? \b No. This entire Mission is considered to be one long Fight. That is why it includes the Desperation Special Rule to allow Heroes some options, even during the long Fight.\line\line\b0 When playing a Mission with Enemy Entry Points, it says that Enemies with Move 0 are not placed as they are not able to enter the board. What if a Threat Card is drawn that only includes Enemies with Move 0? \b In this rare case, the Threat Card should be discarded and re-drawn.\line\line\b0 In the Dark Deal Mission, it is possible that the final Enemy will be either a Goliath or Harbinger. What if I don't have one of these Enemies? \b If you only have one of these Enemies, then it will always be that Enemy. If you do not have either somehow, then instead use any XL or larger Enemy that you do have. \line\line\b0 In the Hunt for Liquid Dark Stone Mission, can Liquid Dark Stone be exchanged between Heroes? \b No. A Hero may only carry the Liquid Dark Stone that they personally have collected.\line\line\line\ul Forest of the Dead Rulebook FAQ:\line\line\line\ulnone\b0 In the Overgrown Mission, are Heroes allowed to Attack the Living Brambles even when not in a Fight with Enemies? \b Yes. Heroes may make Attacks, just as though there were Enemies on the board. \line\line\b0 In the Broken Amulet Mission, when trying to complete the Objective Room Challenge on The Viking's Tomb, what order do the Trials need to be completed in? \b The Heroes should choose and complete each Trial one at a time. The skill tests fcr attempting B) or C) may be done before or after completing the Fight for Trial A). Or the Challenge can be completed by just successfully doing the skill tests for both B) and C), in any order.\line\line\b0 In the Once a Hero Mission, what happens if a Hero currently has the Haunting Voices marker and then is KO'd and rolls a 10 on the Madness Table? \b Because the Haunting Voices marker is only a temporary effect, the Hero still gains the Hearing Voices Madness when rolled, which persists beyond the Mission. There is no extra effect for having the actual Madness Hearing Voices and also having the Haunting Voices marker (it still only does 3 Hits to nearby Heroes). \line\line\line\ul Derelict Ship Rulebook FAQ:\line\par
\ulnone\b0 Dark Stranglers and Space Terrors always attack from Ambush. How does this work when they are placed by a Broken Grate? \b The Ambush only occurs when the Enemy Group is first placed on the board, and has no effect when individual Enemy models are Spawned by a Broken Grate.\par
\b0 How does the possibility to find extra Loot cards in the Derelict Ship work with a Fixed Map Mission? \b Roll as normal when Scavenging. Since there are no Open Doorways to look through, instead, the first Hero to end their move on a Map Tile with one or more unrevealed Exploration Tokens may also roll as though they had looked through a Doorway.\par
\b0 What happens in a Derelict Ship Fixed Map Mission (like The Captain\rquote s Log) if I find a Teleporter that would take me away from the Map? \b Instead of leading away from the Fixed Map, Any Teleportation found will lead to a different Random Room on the same Fixed Map (shuffle and draw one of the Map cards for the other Rooms that are part of the board to find where It leads).\line\line\line\ul Lost Army Rulebook FAQ:\line\line\ulnone\b0 If an Explosive like Dynamite is thrown at a group of Lost Army that are "In Formation" (giving them an Armor bonus), does the Armor bonus go away immediately as soon as the remaining models are no longer "In Formation" (say half way through resolving the Damage from the Explosive, as it kills enough to thin their ranks)? \b No. The Armor bonus for being "In Formation" is only calculated at the start of the Attack, not re-adjusted in the middle.\line\line\b0 The "Pounding of Guns" Mine Encounter says that is triggers the Number 4 result on the Depth Event Chart. Does this change depending on what World it is drawn in? \b Yes. Remember that with the Enemy Theme Adventure Card, it is possible for these Lost Army Themed Encounters to be found even in OtherWorlds.\line\line\b0 With the "Spectres Out of Time" Mine Encounter, do the attacking Lost Army still get a Trait if there are 5 or 6 Heroes in the Posse? \b Yes.\line\line\b0 The "Pillagers" Lost Army Trait says that if within its move distance, a Lost Army Enemy will always move to attack with Melee instead of firing its Hell Musket Volley. Will it break Formation to move into Melee range? \b Yes. Lost Army Models that are Pillagers will prioritize moving to attack with Melee over being in Formation, though if they can, they will attempt to do both. \line\line\b0 With the "Sappers" Lost Army Trait, if an Explosive lands in a space that is adjacent to several Lost Army models, do they get one attempt to throw it back, or does each applicable Lost Army model get its chance to throw it back? \b Each Lost Army models that is in the same or adjacent space to the Explosive (after it finishes any Bouncing), gets a chance to throw it back. Perhaps best to hold onto those Explosives for later. \par
\line\line\ul Feral Vampires Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 On the Shadow of Death Darkness card, is a Growing Dread card drawn for each Hero that fails the test? \b Yes.\line\line\b0 With the Open Coffin Mine Encounter, if you fail the first test, do you still make the second test? \b Yes.\line\line\b0 The Wall Scurrying Vampire Trait card says that they "Always Attack from Ambush". Does this mean they count as Ambushing every turn? \b No. It means that an Attack by Feral Vampires with that Trait is always an Ambush Attack.\line\line\b0 The Hunter's Spike Artifact says that you gain bonus Damage against Undead, Beast and Vampire Enemies, but it doesn't say that it only works on Combat Hits. Does this Damage bonus apply to Ranged Attacks? \b No. The Hunter's Spike should say that the Damage bonus only applies to your Combat Hits.\line\line\b0 If I have the Allies Expansion and one of my Allies gets a Bitten marker, how does that work? \b The Bitten marker itself works just like it would on a Hero. However, if the Ally would ever fully become a Vampire Hero, they lose their mind and instead immediately become an Enemy with all of the stats and abilities of a Feral Vampire, but still using the normal Ally figure to represent them (even if an Animal Ally - Vampire Pack Mule!).\line\line\b0 How does it work if a Mission has two different Common Enemies Special Rules? Say you add the Vampire Adventure Enemy Theme Adventure Card to a Mission that already has Common Enemies as a Special Rule? \b Whenever a Threat card would be drawn, roll for the Adventure Theme Common Enemies first. After rolling, if you would still draw a normal Threat card, then roll for the Mission specific Common Enemies. \line\line\line\ul Werewolf Feral Kin Rulebook FAQ:\ulnone\line\line\line\b0 The Werewolf Feral Kin's Ferocious Attack ability makes their base Combat equal to the target's Hero Level. How does this work with a Pack Master that attacks all adjacent Heroes? \b The base Combat against each target Hero is equal to that particular target's Hero Level, so the number of dice rolled at each individual adjacent Hero may be different.\line\line\b0 The Werewolf Feral Kin's Slashing Claws ability makes their Combat Hits ignore Armor. Does this mean a Hero gets no Defense against their Attacks? \b No. The Armor and Defense are different things. Defense is a basic save that all Heroes have, rolling to prevent each incoming Hit the hero has taken (including those from Werewolf Feral Kin). Armor is an extra save, usually granted by an Item or Ability, that allows a Hero to roll a die for each actual Wound marker that is about to be placed on them, with the potential to prevent each of those individual Wounds. Armor is what Werewolf Feral Kin ignore with their Combat Hits.\line\line\b0 If I'm currently a Werewolf Hero with less than half Health at the end of the Adventure, and I automatically revert to a normal Hero, am I KO'd before the Mission ends? \b No. You would be fully healed before reverting to a normal Hero.\par
\b0 If I have the Allies expansion and one of my allies gets the Curse of the Werewolf, how does that work? \b The ally must test to prevent turning into a Werewolf whenever doubles are rolled for Holding Back the Darkness, just like a Hero that has the Curse. However, if the ally would ever Transform into a Werewolf Hero, they are lost to the beastly urges and instead immediately become an Enemy with all of the stats and abilities of a Werewolf Feral Kin, but still using the normal ally model to represent them (even if an Animal ally - Were-Mule!).\line\line\b0 Does the Territorial ability on the Werewolf Tribal Pack Children of the Moon include currently KO'd Heroes? \b Yes. \line\line\line\ul Black Fang Tribe Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 When an Enemy group of Black Fang Tribe says that it includes a War Shaman, is that an extra model or does one of the normal Black Fang become a War Shaman? \b This is intended to mean that one of the existing Black Fang models becomes a War Shaman. For extra challenge though, you can play it as adding an extra model that is a War Shaman.\line\line\b0 Sometimes the new Enemies in this set are referred to as Black Fang but on their Enemy record sheet they are called Black Fang Tribe. Are these the same thing? \b Yes. Calling them Black Fang is simply short hand for their full name, Black Fang Tribe.\line\line\b0 The Hallucinations Encounter card is listed as "Remains in Play". How often do you have to make the listed Skill test? \b With Remains in Play cards like this (unless stated otherwise in the card's text), the bold text is what "Remains in Play" with a continuing effect, while the Skill test is only resolved once when the card is drawn.\line\line\b0 On the Trophy Room Encounter card it says "Ambush Attack!" at the end. What attacks you? \b Draw a Threat card, as normal, to see what attacks you.\line\line\b0 On the Trophy Room Encounter card, what if no Heroes choose the Search test? Is there still a chance for an Ambush Attack? \b No. Heroes cannot fail the test if they do not choose to take the test.\line\line\b0 The War Chant Blood Rain is keyword Weather. If I am immune to Weather effects, how does that work? \b You can't be selected as the Random Hero, and you are not affected, even if you are within 2 spaces of the Hero that is the target.\line\line\b0 Does the Decayed Minds Black Fang Tribe also affect a War Shaman? \b Yes. If the "effect" that would be doubled upon his death is a War Chant that consumed Dark Stone, treat this as though the same War Chant was just cast twice.\line\line\line\ul Order of the Crimson Hand Rulebook FAQ:\line\ulnone\line\line\b0 The Crimson Hand's Sacred Artifact ability says to draw an Artifact for them. Is this always a Mine Artifact, or is it an Artifact from whatever World they are found in? \b It should be an Artifact from the World that the Enemy Group is placed in.\line\line\b0 With the Crimson Hand's Sacred Artifact ability, what if the Artifact has a value less than 100$? What if it has no value? What if it has a variable value? \b If the Artifact's value is less than 100$, or no value at all, the Crimson Hand are carrying it with them, but it does not give them any extra bonus Health. If the Artifact has a variable value, determine the value when the card is drawn for the Sacred Artifact ability. If a Hero gets to take this Artifact after defeating the Crimson Hand, the value should be determined again, later, for that Hero.\line\line\b0 Sometimes the new Enemies in this set are refereed to as "Crimson Hand", but on their Enemy Record Sheet they are called "Order of the Crimson Hand". Are these the same thing? \b Yes. Calling them Crimson Hand is simply short hand for their full name, Order of the Crimson Hand.\line\line\b0 In the Heavy Iron Gate Mine Encounter, do the Heroes make the Luck test at the bottom, even if they failed to "open the gate" with the Strength test above? \b No. The Luck test is only performed if the gate was opened by succeeding as a group at the Strength test.\line\line\b0 In the Runaway Mine Encounter, when discarding the card in Town, is the +2 Sanity permanent? \b Yes. The Runaway card is discarded to gain the permanent +2 Sanity bonus for each Hero. Note that, while you have the card with during the Adventure, it is discarded with no bonus if she betrays you at the start of a Fight (as detailed on the card). \line\line\b0 In the Race for the Relics mission, it says that he Heroes may only collect 1 Relic from each World. What if I don't have 3 different OtherWorlds yet to play in? \b In this case, multiple of the Gates may lead to the same World, the Heroes may just not find more than 1 Relic on the other side of a single Gate. \line\line\b0 With the Ritual Mutation Crimson Hand Trait, if they have a Chest portal and roll an Artifact or Ambush Attack, how does that work? \b An Ambush Attack adds new Enemies to the Fight. An Artifact immediately adds to the Crimson Hand as an extra Artifact for their Sacred Artifact ability.\b0\par
\b\par
\b0\par
\par
}
 